terrifying footage has emerged of a young tourist who encountered a near - drowning experience after leaping off a cliff and into the ocean
orr , from beverly , massachusetts , posted a scary holiday video of himself struggling to keep his head above water as he desperately swims to safety off the australian coast
the video shows a group of young men waiting to get their turn to jump off the rocks and join their friend in the water but were startled to see a giant wave heading towards orr
' i was actually treading the water waiting for my friends to join for over a minute very comfortably before the video was shot , ' he said
' the waves were just choppy - not really particularly scary but it was very much a case of bad timing
' when he showed his mother the footage after returning home , he said the video brought tears to her eyes
' mum started crying , whoops , ' orr told daily mail australia
' at one point when i was in the water , i realized i was in trouble and i was like " my mum is going to be pissed ! " orr , from massachusetts , posted a video of himself being swept through the rough tides down under as friends watched helplessly , a young woman , who was filming the moment through a camera phone , is heard screaming at the group of male friends : ' do n't go yet ! wait do n't go ! ' ' holy s * * * ! duck ! oh my f * * * * * g god ! pat ! pat ! ' as she tells orr to dive under the waves
' oh my god - you guys - now i 'm freaking out ! ' the woman frantically said
' get the f * * * out of there ! ' struggling to escape to safety , orr is seen being swept through the massive waves as he makes his way towards the cliff while more voices are heard screaming and yelling out directions
as he gets closer to the cliff , orr attempts to climb his way up the rocks but is seen being wiped out and knocked back into the water a number of times
two male friends are seen standing at the edge of the cliff as they try to help orr out but he gets flung back into the waves
the woman continues screaming as she says : ' pat , oh my god , pat. okay that 's not funny anymore ' before switching off the record button
a group of male friends were waiting to get their turn to jump off the rocks and join their friend in the water fortunately , orr made it clear in the caption that he managed to get to safety and escaped with minor injuries the footage , which was filmed on a camera phone , was uploaded onto youtube on friday and has attracted more than 4000 views
' apparently it 's a very common place to jump off the rocks and go swimming , but as we were n't locals we did n't realize that the water is usually completely flat and calm , ' the caption said
' unfortunately , about thirty seconds after i jumped in while waiting for the other wimps to finally join me , a huge wave set hit
' fortunately , orr made it clear in the caption that he managed to get to escape safely with only minor injuries
' luckily , right after the video cuts out i climbed out and puked everywhere in safety
' reminds me of a clip from realtv or some crappy show like that , " they were just some friends going swimming on an australian vacation , little did he know he 'd be trying to keep from going down under himself