newcastle united legend , former england captain and national treasure shearer spent his illustrious football career terrorising the best defences in the premier league - and it all started just earning a weekly wage of £ 25
with a record - high 260 goals in the premier league , the talismanic forward has left a lasting legacy in the north east and one that is unlikely to be bettered
in an exclusive interview with match of the day , shearer opens up about his first experiences in life on and off the football pitch
shearer ( right ) gave an exclusive interview to match of the day magazine discussing his experiences my first ... live game shearer says : ' i remember everything – getting on the metro , getting in the ground , walking up to the top of the stadium and looking at the pitch ! getting squashed because it was standing in those days , then it all going ballistic when kevin keegan scored and newcastle united won – it was mad ! ' shearer saw kevin keegan score in his first ever match at st james ' park when he was a child my first … job shearer says : ' i used to do a milk round with my uncle to earn five pound every saturday
i ' get up at three in the morning , do the round and then go back to sleep
with that five pound i thought i was rich ! ' my first … girlfriend shearer says : ' oh , there was loads
all the girls wanted to go out with me ! ' my first … pay packet shearer says : ' it was when i was an apprentice at southampton , i was on a yts scheme and it was £ 25 a week , straight into my bank account ! ' shearer started his career at southampton before moving to blackburn and winning the premier league my first … car shearer says : ' it was an escort 1300 l , registration number b993 xht
it cost me £ 3,395
i thought i was rich
i thought i was a multimillionaire ' cos i could go out and buy it when i was just 17 ! i cleaned it every day
if i ever got mud on it i was devastated
' shearer 's first ever car was the ford escort 1300 l which was similar to the car pictured above my first … pre-match meal shearer says : ' my first pre-match meal was fillet steak
i 'd never had it before in my life and everyone else was having it , so i thought i 'm going to have it too ! ' the former blackburn star revealed that a fillet steak was his first ever pre-match meal as a footballer my first … hat - trick shearer says : ' 1988
it was my debut for southampton at 17 against arsenal
and then i was in the next day cleaning the kit because i was still an apprentice
i did n't think that was a great idea at the time but looking back it made sure i did n't get carried away
' a 17 - year - old shearer had a debut he 'd never forget after scoring a hat - trick but was soon back washing kits the newcastle united legend also holds the record for the most premier league hat - tricks ( 11 ) my first … tournament as a pundit shearer says : ' i started with the bbc in 2006 so the first tournament was the 2006 world cup in germany
it was nerve - wracking because i was out of my comfort zone
' the match of the day pundit has become a regular on the show and at major tournaments like the world cup the match of the day magazine with shearer 's exclusive interview goes on - sale 24 - 30 march