kim sears waited eight years for a proposal from andy murray , mariah carey accepted nick cannon ’s offer of marriage after one month
how long it takes you to get married is entirely individual but when one person is gagging to get up the aisle and the other has no intention of going there , there are clearly questions that need answering
staying with someone who ’s using you as a stop - gap until their ‘ true ’ love comes along is n’t healthy ; staying with someone who loves you but does n’t want to get married for justifiable reasons is entirely different
tracey reveals the signs to look out for to work out whether your partner is ' the one ' but how do you know who ’s holding out for better and who ’s genuine , albeit marriage shy ? there are the seven key questions to consider , according to relationship therapists - and two you need to ask yourself
what ’s their background and relationship history ? it is often used as an excuse but the ‘ i do n’t believe in the institution of marriage - it ’s just a ‘ piece of paper ’ ’ is understandable if based on past experience
a previous failed marriage can make people cynical about a repeat performance
if your partner ’s parents had a toxic marriage , treated each other badly and were desperately unhappy , it ’s hardly surprising they ’re not keen to follow in their footsteps
their fear is n’t about getting married , it ’s fear of it ending in a messy , painful divorce
are they happy discussing marriage even if not happy doing it ? if you ca n’t sit down and have an open , honest discussion with someone you love about something that is important to you , you should n’t be marrying them in the first place
if a partner refuses to even talk through the topic , it shows a distinct lack of interest in you and your feelings which is n’t a great indicator for a healthy , long - term relationship
can they tell you the reason why they ’re not interested ? it ’s a huge red flag if their answer to ‘ why do n’t you want to marry me ? ” is “ i do n’t know ”
usually one of two things is going on
they ’re avoiding telling the truth - they do n’t want to marry you - or it suggests a lack of self - awareness and ability to articulate feelings
neither are indicative of a healthy functioning relationship
do they have a problem with the actual ceremony ? one couple i knew nearly split because the guy refused to discuss marriage even though he was desperately in love with his partner
he nearly lost her before admitting that , as a shy person , the thought of being the centre of attention and having to make a speech in front of dozens of people scared him witless
think about anything else about the ceremony they might be dreading
does the thought of all their family being together in one room make them want to run for the hills ? tracey says that being to optimistic could be a sign that your relationship is in danger offer up some alternatives - a registry office , garden party with a few friends , just the two of you away somewhere , writing your own vows instead of repeating words that might mean nothing to them - and see what response you get
is it about money ? i ’m not just talking about who will finance the wedding but what happens after that
men , particularly , will often put off getting married until they feel financially secure
even they intellectually know we live in ( more ) equal times , that inbuilt male desire to want to provide can kick in with the most ‘ feminised ’ man at times like this
are they worried getting married might ruin a good relationship ? we ’ve all heard of couples who finally marry after more than a decade only to split a few months later
usually this is because the relationship was failing and getting married was a last - ditch attempt to save it , given all the history shared
but to someone who is thoroughly enjoying the relationship they have now , seeing others fail is a reason to be nervous
why fix it , if it is n’t broken ? , they reason
some personalities are better suited to living together than marriage
some see marriage as security , comfort , an expression of deep and lasting love
others see it as suffocating , claustrophobic and stifling
they might be very happy to live with you forever without being formally ‘ forced ’ to stay but find the thought of ‘ having ’ to stay unappealing
are they happy committing , if not getting married ? do n’t confuse marriage with commitment
plenty of couples are committed to each other without being married and being married does n’t ensure your partner will be committed ( or faithful )
if they ’ll happily chat about things like buying houses , planning holidays , looking after parents in later life and other things that will tie you together for an awfully long time , they have a problem with marriage , not committing to you and your relationship
if your partner clearly loves you , is committed for life but just does n’t want to get married , does it really matter ? why is marriage important to you ? there are many reasons to want to get married
be honest with yourself about what your motivation is
do you want to get married for moral or religious reasons ? are you jealous and want to make sure others know your partner ’s off limits ? are you doing it because all your friends are and you feel left out ? do you want to send an ‘ i ’m over you alright ! ’ message to an ex ? or do you fancy a big party with all your friends and a chance to show off ? are you doing it to boost your self - esteem ? the high of planning a wedding and being the envy of others who ’d also like to be getting married , works wonders to prop up sagging self - confidence
until , of course , the wedding is over and everything reverts straight back to what it was with no problem solved and one created if you realise you ’re married to the wrong person
how healthy is your relationship ? the worst reason of all to get married is thinking it will fix an floundering relationship
are you pushing for it too soon ? if you ’ve been together less than six months , it ’s more ‘ what are you thinking ? ’ than ‘ slow down ’
yes , of course there are exceptions of couples who marry weeks into their relationship and remain blissfully happy years later
but there are more couples who fall into the ‘ marry in haste , repent in leisure ’ category
what ’s the rush , anyway , if you ’re going to be together forever ? most research on marital happiness suggests couples who ’ve been together 18 months before getting engaged , then marry within a year , have the best chance at lasting long - term
statistics are statistics and not always right but this does provide a good yardstick to measure your eagerness by
if you ’re suggesting marriage way earlier than most people and your partner ’s baulking at the idea , this may actually mean they ’re more serious about you , than you are them
while there ’s an undeniable romantic appeal to the notion of ‘ love at first sight ’ , is it not more romantic ( not to mention sensible ) to give your marriage the best possible chance to succeed by waiting a little ?