nsw labor leader luke foley is campaigning to be the state 's new premier a political party 's attempt to use lol cat memes as part of their election campaign has backfired after social media users pointed out they should be focusing on policy not comedy
nsw labor , whose leader luke foley is campaigning to win the upcoming state election , posted a series of cat memes targeted at mike baird premier mike baird on saturday which they renamed ' caturday '
but the party 's facebook fans were quick to point out cat memes had ‘ become a bit passé ’ and blasted ‘ get your message across in an adult way , as it is adults who vote ’
one meme showed two cats yawning with the tagline : ‘ mike baird says prices wo n’t go up
’ another showed a grumpy looking cat with the line : ‘ electricity privatisation … no. ’ while a cute post showed a cat and a kitten cuddling with the words : ‘ nsw labor is investing in schools for your little one
’ one fan of the nsw labor page , sammy yousef , wrote : ‘ this is the best you ’ve got ? freakin ’ lolcats ? that ’s your counterargument ? ' you have the easiest job of any opposition in the history of this country and you ’re being so idiotic about it there ’s still a danger we ’ll end up with lnp
’ nsw labor posted a series of cat memes targeted at mike baird premier mike baird on saturday which they renamed ' caturday ' one of nsw labor 's facebook posts includes a grumpy looking cat with the words ' mike baird ... no ' one fan of the nsw labor page , sammy yousef , wrote : ‘ this is the best you ’ve got ? freakin ’ lolcats ? ' will sawyer said : ‘ seriously using grumpy cat for political advertisement is seriously cringe worthy
i say this out of concern
’ on march 28 , nsw residents will be required to vote for the 56th parliament
jason muller commented : ‘ omfg how pathetic ! ur resorting to using cats to get votes ! ... game over ! jesus christ ! ’ jenni may said : ‘ why the hallmark cat ads ? are n’t you trying to sell intelligent political concepts
this approach will alienate all the “ dog ” people out there
’ ' $ 1,000 + courses at tafe ? no thanks , ' nsw labor wrote alongside this cute kitten kate marksell called for less cat posts and more ' policy , policy , policy please ' ' take it from this cat - whatever mike baird tries to tell you , prices will go up when he sells off our electricity network , ' nsw labor said on facebook the nsw labor used this sleeping kitten picture to illustrate how ' under mike baird , $ 3 billion has been ripped out of our healthcare system ' jason muller commented : ' ur resorting to using cats to get votes ! ' ' really cats ? is this what political debate in nsw has come too , ’ anthony bosh wrote bev little wrote : ‘ no more cats environment not friendly
’ kate marksell instructed : ‘ ok , i like cats but enough with the cats
policy , policy , policy please
’ ‘ yeah but honestly pictures of cats on them has become a bit passé , ’ peter humble replied
‘ most people are n’t posting pictures of their own cats anymore , text or no text
whenever i see a cat come up in my newsfeed i ’m like really ? ‘ which one of my friends forgot to change their calendar over at the end of 2011
then i look and see it ’s the nsw labor
’ nsw labor said : ' poll after poll shows that voters do not support mike baird 's plan to sell off our electricity ' colin price added : ' this cat could literally lose you the election
and you were doing so well ' sam parker said nsw labor has posted ' too many cat memes ' ' nsw labor has a plan to invest $ 1.3 billion into building and updating schools and tafe , ' they facebook page claimed according to this grumpy cat post ' mike baird does n't have a plan b ' natalie roseworn commented : ‘ agree
posting memes of cats does nothing to make you appear professional or progressive , both of which i presume you want to appear
get your message across in an adult way , as it is adults who vote
’ sam parker joked : ‘ too many cat memes … purr real
’ colin price added : ‘ this cat could literally lose you the election
and you were doing so well
’ ‘ really cats ? is this what political debate in nsw has come too , ’ anthony bosh wrote
nsw labor replied : ‘ on caturday ? yes
’ mike baird turned down a present of expensive australian grange wine from radio show hosts kyle and jackie o. on monday
it was a gift of the bottle of the exclusive wine which saw his predecessor , barry o'farrell resign nsw premier mike baird and leader of the opposition luke foley took part in a televised debate in sydney on sunday on sunday afternoon , mr mike baird and mr luke foley went head - to - head in front of 100 swinging voters in sydney 's west
mr mike baird 's plan to sell the electricity network 's poles and wires dominated the second leaders debate
the premier insisted electricity prices will not rise under the plan but mr luke foley dismissed his guarantees as the ' shortest of short - term fixes to get you through an election '
on monday , mr mike baird turned down a present of expensive australian grange wine from radio show hosts kyle and jackie o. mr mike baird got the top job after his predecessor barry o'farrell stepped down after it was revealed he ’d received a $ 3,000 bottle of grange from awh ( awh ) executive nick di girolamo .