chelsea were knocked out of the champions league on away goals after a 2 - 2 draw at home to psg , who progressed to the quarter - finals with the aggregate score finishing 3 - 3
here , is a look at some of the best reactions on twitter
manchester united and england captain wayne rooney : ' that is one of the best performances i 've ever seen with 10 men from psg
' zlatan ibrahimovic is shown a red card as the chelsea players call for treatment for oscar both players flew into the tackle , as it appeared zlatan ibrahimovic was withdrawing his legs as the pair collided match of the day presenter and former england striker gary lineker : ' extraordinary performance from psg
to play with 10 men for an hour and a half without their best player and overcome chelsea is a triumph
' psg 's official twitter feed : ' game over ! ! ! ! do you believe in miracles ! ! ! 10 - man psg advance to the @ championsleague quarterfinals ! ! ! ! ! £ chepsg
' former argentina midfielder and tottenham manager osvaldo ardiles : ' very very poor performance for chelsea , so defensive
pity to see such a wonderful array of players playing so negative
' luiz gets up above branislav ivanovic to power his header past courtois to draw level luiz celebrates after scoring against his former club , sliding on his knees in front of the travelling fans former liverpool and republic of ireland striker john aldridge : ' chelsea simply got what they deserved.the way they played portrayed their manager.negativity at home rarely works
' former arsenal and england striker ian wright : ' do n't know what they 'd do without hazard ! 10 men for 90 minutes ? ' former liverpool and england striker robbie fowler : ' people will respect jose mourinho tonight if he comes out and says exactly what we 've just seen
' thiago silva 's late header loops over courtois to knock chelsea out of the champions league jose mourinho 's men can not believe they have conceded again as they trudge back towards the halfway line former five - time world darts champion eric bristow : ' oh well , my boys chelsea out , but fair play best team won , well done psg
' bbc pundit and former crystal palace forward mark bright : ' i think courtois has got away without a mention , his position from the corner was n't good , tries to anticipate the cross get caught out £ cfc