a company advertising a competition to win a £ 2,000 luxury holiday to ireland have blundered by using a photo of a castle in scots
and the mistake has been met with anger by officials at popular tourist hotspot north of the border
the contest to win a trip to the ireland is being promoted with a picture of eilean donan castle , which is in the highlands and seen by many as one of scots 's most famous castle
womenfreebies.co.uk used a photo of scottish to advertise a competition for ireland unsurprisingly , the use of the scottish castle advertising a holiday to ireland did n't go down too well ... the eilean donan castle officials had some words of advice for the website womenfreebies.co.uk the image was posted to the facebook page of womenfreebies.co.uk with the caption ' like if you 'd love to visit ireland '
the page has almost 800,000 followers and thousands liked the post , but eagle - eyed scots spotted the gaffe and pointed out the mistake
nikki thompson , 63 , of ardrishaig in argyll , said : ' i laughed to myself
i knew right away that it was the scottish - it 's not in ireland
' it 's obviously the wrong castle in the wrong place
' if you are going to advertise a luxury holiday in ireland , you should at least have a picture of ireland , you would think
' i actually messaged them but they never got back to me
' eilean donan castle 's website describes the site as ' one of the most iconic images of scots the first fortified castle was built in the mid 13th century and stood guard over the lands of kintail
and officials at the castle waded into the topic when they posted their own response on the competition page by writing : ' we are not impressed at all ! ! ! '
on the castle 's official facebook page they posted some advice for the competition organisers by writing : ' somebody somewhere really needs a geography lesson ! and fast ! ! ' also on facebook , martin davis wrote : ' if you want to visit this castle , then you 'd have to be in scots ! eilean donan castle in the highlands ! ' kathryn seddon added : ' sounds nice , but it 's a shame they ca n't show a picture of ireland and not eilean donan castle in the beautiful scottish highlands ! ' the administrators of the page have not responded to a request for comment
eilean donan castle 's website describes the site as ' one of the most iconic images of scots , ' recognised all around the world , ' and that the castle is now ' one of the most visited and important attractions in the scottish highlands
' the first fortified castle was built in the mid 13th century and stood guard over the lands of kintail
since then , at least four different versions of the castle have been built and re-built as the feudal history of scots unfolded through the centuries
the beautiful castle is now one of the most visited and important attractions in the scottish highlands