elvis presley had one ; so did clark gable
it was even the sedan of presidents
then the name vanished amid an invasion of newer luxury cars from europe and asia
now , the continental is back
thirteen years after the last continental rolled off the assembly line , ford motor co. is resurrecting its storied nameplate
the new continental debuts in concept form at this week 's new york auto show
the production version of the full - size sedan goes on sale next year
the moonroof glass turns opaque with the touch of a button all in the details : the continental logo is seen on a passenger 's side front wheel for the concept vehicle ( left ) , and the continental name also appears on the driver 's side door ( right ) gleaming : the emblem for a continental shines on the grill of henry ford 's concept car at the new york auto show switch - up : the continental is expected to replace the seven - year - old mks , which currently sits atop continental 's car lineup luxury item : both elvis presley and clark gable once owned continental continentals overseas appeal : in china , customers know the continental name and appreciate brands with a rich history after more than a decade of toying with alphabetical names like lincoln ls and mks to be more like its foreign rivals , ford motor co. 's 98 - year - old continental brand is embracing its heritage
it 's a measure of the growing confidence at continental , which is finally turning around a decades - long sales decline
and it 's a nod to the importance of china , where customers know the continental name and appreciate brands with a rich history
ford motor co. ceo fields says the continental always represented the best of lincoln
resurrecting it sets higher expectations , both within the company and outside of it
' when we get a chance to work on an iconic nameplate like that , it 's a mixture of pride and a mixture of fear , because when you put that name out there , it 's got to deliver , ' fields told the associated press in a recent interview
classic : this undated photo provided by the ford motor co. shows two people looking at 1940 lincoln-zephyr continental cabriolet tradition : the 1941 continental is seen in this undated photograph legacy : in this june 1946 file photo , henry ford , grandson of ford motor co. founder henry ford , is seated in a ford lincoln continental style : the 1948 lincoln continental cabriolet v12 is seen here
thirteen years after the last continental rolled off a michigan assembly line , ford motor co. is debuting the new continental in concept form at the new york auto show on monday piece of history : a 1948 continental that belonged to baseball great babe ruth ( 2012 photograph ) the continental was born in 1938 , when henry ford 's son edsel commissioned a convertible he could use on his spring vacation
thrilled by the reception he got as he drove the elegant sedan around palm beach , edsel made the continental part of continental 's lineup
the continental soon became the pinnacle of u.s. luxury
warner brothers gave elizabeth taylor a 1956 continental with a custom paint color to match her eyes
a darker historical note : john f. kennedy was riding in the back of a 1961 continental convertible when he was assassinated in dallas
continental sales peaked in 1990 at 62,732
but after that , lincoln 's sales began slipping
mid-century : the 1956 lincoln continental mk ii is seen here
that same year , warner brothers gave elizabeth taylor a 1956 continental with a custom paint color to match her eyes one year later : a 1957 continental cruises by the beach in this undated image out for a drive : a woman is seen steering the 1961 continental convertible this june 1961 photo shows president john f. kennedy 's continental limousine
the limo was the first presidential car equipped with a transparent roof for all compartments and has other options including fabric roof covering , or use as a convertible , as well as combinations for the rear , middle and front compartments in this june 1961 photo , u.s. secret service agents stand on retractable stands on president john f. kennedy 's new plastic - topped continental limousine outside the white house , after its delivery in washington tragedy : president john f. kennedy , first lady jackie kennedy and texas governor john connally are seen in this nov. 22 , 1963 file photo on display : the 1962 continental convertible is seen here
a production version of the continental being debuted at the new york auto show this week will go on sale next year history : visitors to the richard nixon library & birthplace get a look at the limousine that was built in 1967 for president lyndon b. johnson in august 1996
the modified continental was used by u.s. presidents , including nixon , until it was retired in 1978 ford motor co. had acquired other luxury brands such as jaguar and volvo
lincoln 's designs got dull and failed to stand out from lower - priced ford motor co.
the continental was also squeezed by competition from the midsize lincoln ls , which debuted in 2000 , and the bigger town car
ford motor co. also underestimated the threat posed by german rivals , who were expanding their lineups , and newer japanese luxury brands
by 2000 , lexus was the top - selling luxury brand in the u.s. ; last year , bmw was
to make its way back , lincoln is n't trying is n't trying to be sporty like bmw or showy like cadillac
instead , fields says , it wants to give drivers an experience that is elegant and serene
' we want folks to get into our vehicles and — for lack of a better term — chill , ' fields said
it appears to be working
continental 's u.s. sales rose 16 percent last year , making it one of the fastest - growing luxury brands in the market
the midsize mkz was the brand 's top seller
full - size sedans like the continental are a tough sell in the u.s. , where buyers tend to prefer midsize sedans or suvs
u.s. sales of lincoln 's current full - size sedan , the mks , fell 24 percent last year
disco era : the 1972 lincoln continental mark iv is seen here
continental sales peaked in 1990 at 62,732
but after that , lincoln 's sales began slipping variation : this image shows a lincoln continental mark v from 1979 different look : a 1992 continental is seen here
full - size sedans like the continental are a tough sell in the u.s. , where buyers tend to prefer midsize sedans or suvs seaside : this undated photo provided by the ford motor co. shows the 1997 continental model cruising : a 2000 continental races down a road
the continental was squeezed by competition from the midsize lincoln ls , which debuted in 2000 , and the bigger town car but globally , the segment is growing , fields says
ford motor co. has high hopes for the continental brand in china , where it 's opening dazzling new dealerships complete with waterfalls
ford motor co. began selling lincolns in china late last year , and the company will open more than 20 dealerships there this year
the concept car being unveiled monday in new york is painted a deep prussian blue , an homage to continentals of the 1950s and 1960s
but there are few other references to its history
lincoln 's split - wing grille , a feature that dates to the 1940s , has been replaced by a tight , rectangular mesh grille , its shiny chrome patterned with tiny versions of lincoln 's rectangular logo
the sides are smooth ; even the door handles are hidden within a narrow strip of chrome at the beltline
the concept is a technology showcase
the driver 's seat has a patented split cushion , so if the driver holds one leg out further than another , it will support each leg separately
the moonroof glass turns opaque with the touch of a button
another button automatically moves the front passenger seat forward and fully reclines the rear passenger seat
that 's another nod to china , where luxury car owners often have their own drivers
under the hood is a 3 - liter v6 ecoboost engine that 's unique to lincoln
ford motor co. is n't yet revealing more details , like whether the car is front - or rear - wheel drive
the continental switched to a front - wheel - drive sedan in the 1980s , but many of its current competitors — the infiniti q70 , mercedes benz s-class and lexus ls — are rear - wheel drive
the continental is expected to replace the seven - year - old mks , which currently sits atop continental 's car lineup .