video has emerged of the lapd pulling over the 20 - year - old son of taraji p. henson that appears to refute claims made by the empire actress that he was racially profiled by police
taraji p. henson hit headlines earlier this week by revealing in an interview that her son , marcel henson , was stopped in glendale for no reason , then doing ' exactly everything the cops told him to do , including letting them illegally search his car '
' it was bogus because they did n't give him the ticket for what he was pulled over for , ' she told interview magazine
however the just - surfaced dashcam footage , taken in october last year , shows that taraji p. henson drove through a lighted crosswalk as a pedestrian walked across
after being questioned , taraji p. henson admitted to having marijuana and ritalin on him
he was also found to hash oil , a grinder and a knife
taraji p. henson said this week her son was racially profiled during the stop new footage : despite taraji p. henson saying her son was pulled over for no reason , he actually ran a lighted crosswalk as a pedestrain crossed and admitted to having marijuana and ritalin on him sobriety test : marcel henson , 20 , told the officer he had smoked marijuana two hours before driving , and the officer asks him to get out of the car to see if he is under the influence , but determines he is n't taraji p. henson saaid her son marcel was racially profiled by police in glendale and at tje university of southern california
the mother and son are pictured above at a film screening in caucasian hollywood last april the knife turned out to be legal
taraji p. henson said he had a prescription for the marijuana but could not find it
he said he did not have a prescription for the ritalin and that a friend had given it to him
however the officer , who seems very generous when dealing with taraji p. henson , lets the teen off with a citation for marijuana possession only
the dashcam footage was obtained by the los angeles times , which noted that race did not seem to be a factor when taraji p. henson was first pulled over
' i am not going to give you a citation for running that yellow because that would actually put a moving violation on your driving license , and you are going to have to go to traffic school and all that stuff , so i am helping you by not giving you a violation on it
all i am going to do is take the weed from you , ' the officer can be heard saying in the video
the officer told taraji p. henson he could go to court with the citation and show proof he has a prescription for medical marijuana
otherwise he could just pay a fine
' it felt like this was a little better than the other one , ' the officer said
' i am giving this to you too because you smoked weed about two hours ago … and a warning if you have ritalin on you and you 're not supposed to , do n't do it
' that 's a big violation and i would n't want to do that to you
' the boy 's mother made her controversial comments to uptown magazine earlier in the week
the empire star said that not only was her son pulled over by police , but was stopped by cops at the university of southern california for ' having his hands in his pocket
taraji p. henson revealed she had planned to transfer marcel to university of southern california , but had now decided to send the 20 - year - old to the historically black howard university , her alma mater
empire star henson , 44 , says her son was stopped at the university of california ( file picture ) for no other reason than having his hands in his pockets a university of southern california chief vowed to carry out his own investigation into the alleged incident taraji p. henson spoke about in the magazine
the school 's public safety director , thomas , said he was ' disturbed ' by the reports
after learning of the university of southern california allegation , thomas revealed that he too had experienced racial profiling as a teenager in a statement , he said : ' i was deeply disturbed to read news reports about a prospective student who felt profiled on or near campus because of his race
' we encourage reporting of allegations of bias and i hope for the opportunity to have a conversation with the young man and his mother
taraji p. henson has revealed she has now decided to send her 20 - year - old son marcel to historically - black college ' i would like to look into this matter further and better understand who was involved and what took place
' as someone who personally experienced racial profiling as a teenager , i have a stake in learning more about this incident and doing all i can to reach a just resolution
' he said he was not yet clear on which police departments were involved and that ' any allegation of bias or unequal treatment by university officers would trigger an investigation that i would supervise along with the university 's office of equity and diversity '
he continued : ' it is my expectation and that of the university that our department uphold the highest standards of constitutional policing , affording equal rights and respect to all persons
' marcel is taraji p. henson 's only child , and his father was her high school sweetheart
new hit : taraji p. henson currently stars on empire as cookie lyon , the recently - released - from - prison ex-wife of a music mogul ( played by terrence howard ) after revealing her son 's ordeal , the 44 - year - old said in the interview : ' so guess where he 's going ? howard university
i 'm not paying $ 50k so i ca n't sleep at night wondering is this the night my son is getting racially profiled on campus
also in the interview , taraji p. henson spoke about how happy she was to be one of now many black women leads on the small screen in shows like scandal and how to get away with murder
' it feels good that there 's not just one black person
i do n't like that we get fixated on one or two at a time , or three at a time
if you look at caucasian hollywood , every year there 's a handful of new faces you 've never seen before , then after that , they got five movies coming out and they 're introducing you to more talent
so i 'm just so happy to see what 's happening on television right now
we have options and that 's how it should be , ' taraji p. henson said
proud mother : taraji p. henson and her son pictured on january 20 , 2013 - attending a celebration for leading women in washington , dc empire aired it 's two - hour first - season finale last week , and has already been green - lighted for a second season
taraji p. henson plays cookie lyon on the show , the ex-wife of a rap music mogul ( played by terrence howard ) who was recently released from prison after taking the fall for his drug - dealing business
the show has had several guest starts in the music industry including snoop dog , courtney love , rita ora , and jennifer hudson .