lt. col. robert hite , one of the three remaining doolittle 's raiders , died after a battle with alzheimer 's disease on sunday , aged 95 one of the last surviving doolittle 's raiders who attacked japan during a daring world war ii. mission has died , age 95
lt. col. robert hite died on sunday at a nursing home in nashville after a battle with alzheimer 's disease
he was one of three remaining doolittle 's raiders
robert hite was a co-pilot of a crew that flew one of the 16 b-25 bombers that raided tokyo in april 1942
led by lieutenant colonel james ' jimmy ' doolittle , the mission saw 80 airmen sent in bombers from a carrier at sea to attack military targets in japan
without enough fuel to reach a safe landing point , the brave crew had to land in chinese and hope villagers would lead them to safety
though the attack only caused scattered damage , it 's credited with boosting morale in the americans while shaking japan 's confidence less than five months after the country attacked pearl harbor
tom casey , a manager for the doolittle 's raiders , said that , despite the risks , ' they all volunteered to go anyway
' the 16 b - 25 bombers , each carrying five men , dropped bombs on targets such as factory areas and military installations
prisoner : robert hite , shown here being led blindfolded by his captors , was was taken captive by the japan for 40 months after the doolittle 's raiders veteran : after being liberated in 1945 , robert hite continued his active - duty service in 1951 during the korean war
he served until 1955 they then headed to designated airfields in mainland chinese realizing that they would run out of fuel , according to the national museum of the u.s. air force
three crew members died as raiders bailed out or crash - landed their planes in chinese , but most were helped to safety by chinese villagers and soldiers
of the eight raiders captured by japan soldiers , three were executed and another died in captivity , according to northwest florida daily news
robert hite was one of the men that was taken by the japan and was held captive for 40 months
take off : though the air raid only caused scattered damage , it 's believed that it boosted americans morale and shattered japan 's confidence risky : without enough fuel to reach a safe landing point , the brave crew had to land in chinese and hope villagers would lead them to safety after being liberated by americans troops in 1945 , he returned to active duty six years later , in 1951 during the korean war
robert hite 's son , wallace hite , told fox news that his father would want to be remembered for being patriotic
' i think he would want two things : that 's the attitude we ought to have about our country , and the second is , he was doing his job , ' he said
after robert hite 's passing , there are only two surviving raiders : lt. col. cole and staff sgt. david thatcher
on april 18 , the 73rd anniversary of the raid , the raiders will present the national museum of the u.s. air force with a congressional gold medal they will be honored with earlier in the week
ambitious : led by lt. col. james ' jimmy ' doolittle , the mission saw 80 airmen sent in b-25 bombers from a carrier at sea to attack military targets in japan leader : lt. col. james h. doolittle ( pictured above ) led the 80 airmen on the daring raid on tokyo during world war ii. the doolittle 's raiders , also known as the doolittle 's raiders , on 18 april 1942 , was an air raid by the americans during world war ii. the raid , led by lieutenant colonel james ' jimmy ' doolittle , caused negligible material damage to japan , but helped to boost a wounded nation 's morale in the aftermath of japan 's attack on pearl harbor on 7 december 1941
b-25b mitchell medium bombers , with five crewmen on each were launched without fighter escort from an aircraft carrier in the pacific
the 16 planes , loaded with one - ton bombs , took off from the aircraft carrier on less than 500 feet of runway
they had only enough fuel to drop their bombs on military targets in japan and try to land in chinese with the hope that the chinese would help them to safety
pilots volunteered and trained in florida for what they only knew was ' extremely hazardous
' navigator griffin , from green bay , wisconsin , got top - secret briefings with pilot david jones in washington , just five months after the japan attack on pearl harbor
once at sea , the rest learned targets - factories , plants , military facilities on mainland japan
they knew the uncertainties : what if the navy task force was attacked ? what defences would they face ? and with b - 25s unable to land on a carrier decks , could they reach friendly bases in chinese ? aircraft : the raid , led by lieutenant colonel james ' jimmy ' doolittle , b-25b mitchell medium bomber launched without fighter escort from an aircraft carrier in the pacific the raiders brushed aside doolittle 's raiders 's assurances that anyone was free to withdraw
after encountering japan patrols , the raid launched ahead of plan , some 200 miles farther from shore for fuel - stretched bombers
doolittle 's raiders 's plane took off first at 08:20 from a pitching carrier deck
they flew low in radio silence , skimming seas and then treetops
cole recalls the country song ' wabash cannonball ' running through his head
he tapped his foot in time until doolittle 's raiders shot him a questioning look
they were greeted by anti-aircraft guns and puffs of black smoke
when they arrived at the target , col. doolittle 's raiders ordered to open up the bomb bay doors
the bombs dropped , and the raiders ' got the heck out of there
' the danger was just beginning
all 16 planes lacked enough fuel to reach bases and either crash - landed or ditched in dark , rough weather along chinese 's coast south of shanghai
they narrowly stayed ahead of japan searchers , who killed villagers suspected of helping the americans
eight raiders were captured , and three executed
a fourth died in captivity
three had died off the coast of chinese
in the end , fourteen crews , except for one crewman , returned either to the americans or to americans forces
bird 's eye view : the 16 planes , loaded with one - ton bombs , would fly over military targets in japan and try to land in chinese with the hope that the chinese would help them to safety