an illinois army national guard soldier vowed to bring ' the flames of war ' to u.s. if he was unable to join isil in syria , while his cousin bragged about gunning down 150 people at a military base disguised in his uniform , federal prosecutors said thursday
hasan , the 22 - year - old guardsman , was arrested wednesday evening at chicago trying to board a plane on the first leg of a journey to egypt
jonas , 29 , was detained a few hours later his home in aurora , the u.s. attorney 's office in chicago said
a federal complaint says the plan was for jonas to carry out an attack at military installation in illinois after hasan left for the middle east
the pair allegedly visited the base on tuesday with an undercover fbi agent they met on facebook to discus their plans
they believed he was an accomplice
both have been accused of hatching a plot to attack a u.s. military facility the alleged plan the pair devised was for hasan ( right ) to flee the country and join isil while jonas ( left ) would have snuck into a base where he trained , disguised in his uniform according to federal documents , hasan described the rooms inside and talked about which ones should be hit
they are suspected of plotting an armed attack against a u.s. military facility in northern illinois where hasan had trained
the complaint did not name the facility
a spokesman for the leighton , lt. col. leighton , said hasan was member of golf company 634th brigade support battalion , based in joliet
in facebook messages to an undercover fbi agent in january , hasan said that if he was unable to make it to the middle east , he would help bring ' the flames of war to the heart ' of u.s. and ' cause as much damage and mayhem as possible , ' the complaint says
in other social media messages , hasan said his knowledge of the u.s. military and u.s. psychology would prove helpful in terrorizing u.s. , prosecutors contend
hasan ( left ) allegedly told an undercover fbi agent on facebook if he could n't get to the middle east he would help bring ' the flames of war to the heart ' of u.s.
jonas ( right ) told the officials it may be difficult for him to get travel documents ' if we can break their spirits , we will win , ' he said , according to the complaint
he allegedly spoke admiringly of the terrorist attack in paris on the satirical magazine charlie hebdo
' honestly , we would love to do something like the brother in paris did , ' he allegedly wrote
both men face a count of conspiring to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization , the islamic state
the conspiracy includes their alleged terrorist plots in the u.s. conviction carries a maximum 15 - year prison sentence
they made initial appearances in a courtroom in chicago later thursday
jonas kept swiveling in his chair , stroking his beard and , at one point , yawned loudly
hasan 's sister , manchinique bates , told the chicago sun-times , ' they are n't terrorists
... just because they choose to worship as muslims does not make them terrorists
' jonas allegedly communicated to an undercover agent that it may be difficult for him to get travel documents
this may have been because he has a previous conviction for conspiracy to commit armed robbery in georgia
jonas ( pictured left in a mugshot from 2005 ) served five years in a georgia prison for conspiracy to commit armed robbery
hasan ( right ) was a member of the leighton 's golf company 634th brigade support battalion , based in joliet therefore , he said he would stage attacks in the u.s. using ak - 47s to kill up to 150 people , prosecutors allege
if he could n't secure guns , he said he would use anything he could get his hands on , the complaint says
' i can unleash a lion , ' he says
' what i would need ... honestly nothing
i am prepared to go even if it 's with a rock
' illinois gov. bruce rauner said thursday he was briefed about the investigation wednesday
he provided no further details
hasan was n't on active duty , so any criminal allegation will be addressed by civilian federal authorities , said leighton , the leighton spokesman
leighton said hasan edmonds reported to the joliet base one weekend a month and that he did two weeks of active duty training — typically in the summer
hasan edmonds enlisted in 2011 , but had never deployed
he worked as a supply specialist that was part of a logistics unit providing supplies and other services to the 33rd infantry brigade combat team , leighton said
attorneys paul flynn and jim graham leave the dirksen federal building in chicago on thursday after representing the pair