the 19 - year - old daughter of robert f. kennedy jr. reportedly freaked out at staff at an new york club when they refused to allow her in with a fake id , screaming : ' i am a kyra kennedy , google me ! ' kyra kennedy allegedly threw a tantrum after being turned away from club lava at the stone resort casino in verona , new york last thursday
the teen had tried to use 26 - year - old kick kennedy 's passport but could n't remember her half - sister 's birthday and was caught looking up the date of birth on wikipedia by a security guard
kyra kennedy ( right ) , who is 19 , was reportedly turned away from lava nightclub a short time later kyra kennedy , 19 , ( left ) partying with friend matisse
the teen reportedly used half - sister kick kennedy 's passport ( right ) to try to get into a nightclub in new york but could n't remember her date - of - birth an eagle - eyed security guard at the lava club at the casino complex in verona , new york spotted that the 19 - year - old was using the wrong id last thursday after being turned away from the club , she screamed : ' i am a kyra kennedy , google me ! ' , the new york post reported , quoting a source
one witness said kyra , a great - niece of jfk , then threatened : ' if you do n't let me in , the governor will be calling
' when she was still refused entry to the over- 21s club , she went to scream at the front desk staff that she would sue
turning stone resort casino would not comment when contacted by daily mail online on tuesday
miss kyra kennedy was visiting friends for the weekend at syracuse university
andrew warren posted a picture to his instagram account of the pre-party in a hotel room where kyra kennedy and friends matisse and julia moshy posed up in their lingerie in front of a table laden with vodka and tequila
kyra kennedy pictured left in dior making her society debut at the paris bal des dã©butantes in november 2013 ( pictured left ) friend gaia matisse told daily mail online that the story had been exaggerated and blown out of proportion
miss matisse said she was not aware of kyra drinking before going to the club
she added : ' i do not know the details , except the fact that after kyra was declined she went back to the hotel room and went to sleep
' kyra kennedy 's social media accounts reveal that she is no stranger to partying , posting shots of her attending events around the world
in 2013 , the teen , daughter of robert f. kennedy jr. and the late mary richardson kennedy , made her society debut at the paris bal des dã©butantes in dior
she was accompanied by her father and his then girlfriend , actress cheryl hines
the couple married last year
kyra is an aspiring fashion designer and has had internships at dior and kenneth cole
using a fake id in new york ( which includes borrowing someone else 's real id ) , can lead to penalties including fines and community service
however , altering an official id may constitute ' possession of a forged instrument ' - a class - d felony under new york state penal law
kick kennedy , who is robert f. kennedy jr. 's daughter with his first wife emily black , is an actress who has been in tv shows the newsroom , gossip girl and curb your enthusiasm ( which also stars robert f. kennedy jr. 's new wife cheryl )
kyra kennedy , robert f. kennedy jr. and cheryl hines attend the ceremony honoring hines with a star on the hollywood walk of fame in january 2014