it 's not quite from sea to shining sea , but the latest winter storm gets an " a " for effort ( or is that an " e " ? )
for its sheer size , this one is a monster , stretching from new mexico to southern new england
if you 're keeping track on your maps at home , that 's 2,000 miles of snowy misery and 94 million people under some sort of winter weather warning , watch or advisory
" enough , " cries a winter - weary nation
enough of the sleet and ice in the dallas area
more than 640 arrivals and departures were canceled at dallas / fort worth international airport on wednesday
another 540 have been scrubbed for thursday
" dear mr. heat miser , please reclaim dallas from your obnoxious half brother snow , " tweets dandy killeen
enough snow to hide your energy drink
" the snow is almost 1 energy shot deep in okc , " tweeted damon lane
enough snow to cover the yard and street
some areas will get 6 to 10 inches
hundreds stranded in snow on kentucky highway " snow really coming down in lexington , kentucky a solid 1 " + per hour snowfall rate ! " tweets t.g. shuck
enough snow for a snow emergency
the federal government is closed on thursday
" dc. snow emergency to go into effect at 7 am thursday
move your vehicles from these routes ! " tweets fox 5 dc. enough snow to eat ice cream
" just celebrated the coming snow with a bowl of moose tracks , " tweets country music legend charlie daniels
enough snow to ... actually , new mexico is weird
aaron goodwin of " ghost adventures " fame likes the white stuff
he tweeted : " snow : ) " but he likes hunting for ghosts too so use your own judgment
enough snow for a snow day
stay safe and stay warm , everybody , " tweets sean nunan , the associate principal at christian brothers academy in lincroft
enough snow and rain to cause problems
the area will get up to 4 inches of rain before it turns to snow
the national weather service warned that flooding could be an issue , especially across the lower ohio valley and western mid-atlantic regions
cnn affiliate wchs reports a mudslide in mingo county , west virginia , sent one woman to the hospital
enough snow to go totally nuts
so far this season boston has seen 105.7 inches -- almost 9 feet -- of snow
that 's just 1.9 inches short of the record set nine years ago
more snow is expected from this system , but it 's not likely to be enough to break the record as the forecast models indicate the majority of snow will stay south of the city
there is a slim chance of snow on thursday , followed by days of sunshine and temperatures near 40 by monday
enough cold to wrap yourself in blankets " another # snowday ? auto - swaddle yourself in softness , " recommends downy
cnn meteorologists dave hennen and matt daniel contributed to this report .