seoul , korean a man opposed to joint korean - u.s. military drills attacked the u.s. ambassador in seoul , slashing his face and arm as he was about to give a speech thursday morning , authorities said
north korea quickly called the stabbing a " knife attack of justice " and said it reflected " anti- u.s. sentiment " in korean
authorities have obtained an arrest warrant for the knifing suspect , kim , an official at seoul central district court said friday
he was detained immediately after the attack , with authorities having time to formally arrest him or let him go
kim , 55 , who has a history of unpredictable behavior , could eventually be charged with attempted murder and other charges
a police official , yoon myeong-seong , also told reporters that kim had previously visited north korea seven times between 1999 and 2007 , and that authorities were " intensively investigating " a possible connection between his visits to the reclusive state and this attack
the u.s. ambassador to korean , mark lippert , was in stable condition after undergoing more than two hours of surgery , in which he got 80 stitches to his face
he will probably remain hospitalized for three to four days , said dr. jung at yonsei severance hospital
in 2010 , kim received a suspended two - year prison sentence for throwing a piece of concrete at a japanese ambassador to korean , according to the yonhap news agency
the motive for his attack thursday ? he wanted an end to the korean - u.s. military drills to improve north-south relations , police said
the drills are held annually despite predictably harsh criticism from north korea
the north korea government believes the attack is " just punishment for u.s. warmongers , " according to its official news agency , kcna
korean president park geun-hye , on the other hand , condemned it
" this incident is not only a physical attack on the u.s. ambassador , " she said , " but an attack on the korean - u.s. alliance and it can never be tolerated
" u.s. diplomats have been attacked , killed in past mark lippert was attacked while attending an event organized by the korean council for reconciliation and cooperation , which advocates peaceful reunification between the two koreas
the u.s. embassy did not request special security for the event , seoul police said
three police officers were on duty at the building 's entrance , and 25 others were on standby
kim sat down at a different table than mark lippert , then got up and ran to the ambassador 's right side yelling something that sounded like anti-american sentiments
" when the man jumped on the ambassador , i stood up and jumped on the man , and they both fell on the ground , " a witness , jang , told cnn affiliate ytn
" luckily i got on top of the man 's back and could press him to the floor
then others came to hold him on the floor
" jang said he later saw the knife on the table
it had a wooden handle and did not look particularly sophisticated , he said
seoul police said a knife , about 10 inches long , was used in the assault and the suspect brought it from home
videos showed the suspect pinned on the floor , rolled into a blanket and carried out of the building
he was heard shouting , " the korean - u.s. military drills must stop
" the drills began earlier this week
explaining the joint korean - u.s. military exercises after the attack , mark lippert -- clutching his right cheek and holding a bloodied arm -- was photographed hurrying out of the sejong cultural institute in central seoul
the cut to his face runs from his right cheekbone to his lower jaw and is about 4 inches long and about an inch deep , dr. jung said
fortunately , there was no damage to his facial nerve
mark lippert also suffered five gashes in his left arm and hand , but he is not likely to have permanent damage to his arm function
" the ambassador was very calm
people around him were taken aback , but he was very calm , " said dr. john linton
" he was speaking with his doctor on what to do
" as the ambassador left and headed to the hospital , investigators arrived , hoping to figure out exactly what happened
while there are videos showing what happened at the event , none of them will be from closed - circuit surveillance cameras , said yoon , the seoul police chief
the only such camera outside the building did help authorities determine exactly when mark lippert and kim came in
was the attack part of a larger plot ? did kim have any help , implicit or explicit ? not if you ask him , according to the seoul police chief
" kim insists that this was done by himself , " yoon said
" but police are still investigating if he acted alone and what his motive was
" park , korean 's president , told mark lippert by phone that she was surprised and deeply troubled to hear about the attack -- an incident similar to one targeting her several years ago -- the asian nation 's foreign ministry said on its website
the korean leader vowed that authorities will " take necessary measures ... with utmost seriousness and urgency " to get to the bottom of the latest attack
she also promised to keep close ties with the u.s. " so that the incident would not have any negative implications on the ( korean ) - u.s. alliance , " according to the ministry
for park 's u.s. counterpart , president obama , the attack is personal as well as political
that 's because mark lippert is a longtime friend and confidant , having been part of obama 's inner circle for years
obama called mark lippert " to tell him that he and his wife robyn are in his thoughts and prayers , and to wish him the very best for a speedy recovery , " national security council spokeswoman bernadette meehan said
mark lippert has been close to obama ever since he arrived in the senate in 2005
mark lippert worked with obama on the senate foreign relations committee and traveled the world with the then - senator as he garnered the foreign policy experience that helped pave the way for his presidential campaign
when obama declared he would run for president in the 2008 race , mark lippert was by his side again , and was on the road with the candidate and ultimately served as the chief foreign policy adviser for the obama campaign
obama nominated mark lippert to serve as ambassador to korean last year
thursday afternoon , mark lippert tweeted that he was recuperating
" doing well & in great spirits ! robyn , sejun , grigsby & i - deeply moved by the support ! " he tweeted , referring to his wife , his son and his dog
" will be back asap to advance u.s. - korean alliance ! " he then added in korean , " let 's work together ! " cnn 's judy kwon , paula hancocks , alexandra jaffe , stephen collinson , barbara starr , jim acosta and journalist hyoungjoo choi contributed to this report .