the story of the jewish in the u.s. is a testament to " u.s. exceptionalism " and stands in contrast to a long history of discrimination and pariah status in european and muslim lands
in fact , the economic prosperity and social standing of u.s. 's jewish shows that generally they have fared better than many other minorities
this positive record is a fulfillment of the assurance given to the newport , rhode island , hebrew congregation in 1790 by president george washington : " it is now no more that toleration is spoken of as if it were the indulgence of one class of people that another enjoyed the exercise of their inherent natural rights , for , happily , the government of the united states ... gives to bigotry no sanction , to persecution no assistance
" since then , u.s. jewish have been appointed and elected to public offices as governors , senators , mayors , cabinet officers and in the military , and today , most u.s. adults are unaware of and do n't seem to care who 's jewish
thus it comes as a shock when at the ucla , a jewish woman student applicant for the student council 's judicial board is initially rejected after being asked : " given that you are a jewish student and very active in the jewish community , how do you see yourself being able to maintain an unbiased view ? " according to the new york times , the discussion that followed had " seemed to echo the kind of questions , prejudices and tropes -- particularly about divided loyalties -- that have plagued jewish across the globe for centuries
" the minutes and video of the event suggest some student leaders seemed to be auditioning for the salem witch trials and others for jobs as political commissars in communist north korea
and in february , at another ucla campus in davis , jewish students opposed to a student council resolution advocating a boycott of israel were heckled by cries of " allahu akbar " and a jewish fraternity house was daubed with a swastika
chancellor gene block of ucla called the dust up on his campus a " teachable moment
it seems ucla 's diverse body of students requires remedial classes in civics
would ucla students consider it appropriate to ask u.s. supreme court justices ruth bader ginsburg and elena kagan similarly hostile and demeaning questions ? apparently it 's necessary for the university to teach its student leadership that the u.s. constitution bans religious tests for public office
while they are at it , they also can inform them that the bill of rights assures freedom of religion , speech and assembly to all citizens
california 's university administrators might need to be reminded that title 6 of the civil rights act of 1964 applies to all u.s. , and they have an obligation to ensure equal educational opportunity for all students
this includes , among other things , promptly and effectively addressing certain hostile environments
as for the uc davis students , they need to learn that support for israel is a legitimate u.s. tradition
a century ago , brandeis asserted : " zionists is the pilgrim inspiration and impulse all over again ... to be good u.s. , we must be better jews , and to be better jews , we must become zionists
" students are of course free to disagree with brandeis but not to harass or intimidate jewish who support his argument
the events in california might be regarded as isolated incidents and youthful excesses of the type that has always marked campus life
except of course that is not true
this type of hatred , stereotyping and bias is a worrying new development that suggests a generational problem
in our recent study , my trinity college colleague , ariela keysar , and i found that 54 % of jewish students reported experiencing or witnessing ant - semitism on campus during the six months of september 2013 - march 2014
our survey covered 1,157 jewish students on 55 campuses
the patterns and high rates of anti-semitism that were reported were surprising
another finding was that female students were more likely than males ( 58 % versus 51 % ) to report anti-semitism
jewish women seem more vulnerable on campus today
u.s. 's universities need to foster u.s. exceptionalism and values
they should take special care to avoid following current " european fashion trends
" the situation in french today demonstrates the price of failing to nip youthful extremism in the bud
twenty years ago , complaints by jewish students in paris that they were subject to anti-semitism from a strange coalition of marxist , fascist and islamist groups were ignored by complacent university and government officials
the dangerous streets of paris are witness to what results when a country ignores problems and panders to extremist opinions
the army is currently deployed across french to protect synagogues and jewish community buildings
but history has taught us what begins with the jewish does n't end with the jewish
the french army also has to defend the nation 's shopping malls , government buildings and of course , its cartoonists .