robert downey jr. may be iron man in the popular marvel superhero films , but he recently dealt in some advanced bionic technology himself
robert downey jr. recently presented a robotic arm to young alex pring , a central florida boy who is missing his right arm from just above his elbow
the arm was made by limbitless solutions , a volunteer group started by manero , a university of central florida engineering phd student , to make free bionic arms for kids
through 3 - d printing technology , alex pring and others have had the chance to get a robotic arm so they can use their limbs again
alex pring received his robotic arm in the summer , then later had it upgraded to resemble a " transformers " arm
this past saturday , alex pring received an even more impressive gift , from " iron man " himself
robert downey jr. met with alex pring in an atlanta hotel room
the actor showed the child two arms , one from robert downey jr. 's movies and one for alex pring : a real , working robotic iron man arm
as they both tried theirs on , they compared the lights inside their palms
the video was posted thursday by robert downey jr. as well as microsoft , which arranged the meeting as part of its social media campaign , collective project , celebrating students using technology to change the world
it very quickly went viral on social media
alex pring is 7 , in first grade and a huge superhero fan
his mom told him they were going to atlanta to meet manero and a specialist who were working on a new arm for the boy
" he did n't question it much , so we kind of just went with it , " his mom , alyson pring , told cnn
" afterward , i asked , ' why were you so quiet ? ' he said , ' i was freaking out ! ' " after giving him the new arm , robert downey jr. invited alex pring to hang out with him in atlanta this summer when he 's filming the new captain america movie
manero met alex pring through e-nable , a volunteer network that matches people who have 3 - d printers with children who need limbs
alex pring 's mom wanted to get him a replacement hand because he was being teased
" whenever people saw him , they 'd say , ' what 's wrong with your arm ? ' " alyson pring said
" now it 's , ' your arm is amazing , you 're so cool ... it helps educate people to maybe think twice before saying something like , ' why are you like that ' ? " the prop master for the marvel movies built the case for robert downey jr. 's arm and the case for the little boy 's arm
the college students made the actual arm for pring , from the design to the painting to the robotics , said david beauparlant , marketing manager at microsoft
" you could n't even do this stuff not too long ago
it 's amazing what the 3 - d printing can do , " he said
to find out more about alex pring and the collective project , here 's our recent story on the topic of 3-d printed limbs .