u.s. diplomats have come under attack in various places in the last few decades
here 's a look at u.s. diplomats who have been killed in the line of duty
the first u.s. ambassador assassinated while in office was mein , the u.s. ambassador to guatemala
according to a telegram from the embassy in guatemala city , a young man dressed in fatigues and carrying a sub-machine gun on august 28 , 1968 , ordered mein 's vehicle to stop and for the ambassador to get out
he did , then ran -- prompting a cry of " shoot him , kill him
" mein was shot and fell to the ground about 12 yards behind his limousine
noel , the u.s. ambassador to sudan , was nearing the end of a march 1973 reception in the saudi embassy in khartoum when terrorists stormed in
the gunmen took noel and another u.s. , as well as diplomats from saudi arabia , belgium and jordan , according to a u.s. intelligence memo
the captors ' demand : free various people , mostly palestinian guerillas , then imprisoned in jordan , israel and the u.s.
this spurred negotiations that did n't go anywhere , ending instead with the killing of noel , fellow u.s. diplomat george curtis moore and belgium 's charge d'affaires
u.s. authorities say the assailants belonged to the palestinian terrorist movement known as " black september , " claiming that palestinian leader yasser arafat signed off on the attack
ambassador rodger davies , who had been in cyprus for less than months , hunkered down in a hallway on august 19 , 1974 , hoping he was safe from those involved in a nearby demonstration
instead , a bullet penetrated the embassy compound and struck his heart , killing him instantly
antoinette varnava , a 31 - year - old local who was part of the small embassy staff for about a decade , also died in the violence
u.s. ambassador to lebanese francis meloy , his economic counselor robert o. waring and their lebanese driver disappeared in june 1976 as they crossed the green line , the division between beirut 's christian and muslim sectors
their bullet - riddled bodies were found a short time later in mainly muslim west beirut , which was then controlled by plo chairman yasser arafat 's guerrillas
two former muslim guerillas were convicted in the kidnapping and killings , only to be freed in 1996
about eight months after president jimmy carter appointed him as u.s. ambassador to afghanistan , adolph dubs was taken from his car while heading home from the embassy
his captors took the foreign service veteran to the kabul , where dubs died in a shootout between captors and afghanistan police -- a violent death that , whomever fired the fatal bullets , the state department considers an assassination
a former eight - story hotel facing the sea transformed into u.s. 's embassy in beirut turned into a war zone in april 1983 , when a truck loaded with explosives was rammed into its entrance
offices were pancaked on top of each other , the elevator shaft and stairwell destroyed , the cafeteria full of bodies and rubble , recalled the then u.s. ambassador dillon , who himself was dug out of the rubble
while 44 people inside the embassy survived the blast , 17 u.s. , 25 foreign service nationals , 10 contract workers and 10 visa applicants and passerby did not
in 2008 , dillon said the attack was believed to have been carried out by a family " under the direction of members of iran 's revolutionary guards
" on august 7 , 1998 -- around the exact same time a bomb went off at the u.s. embassy in dar es salaam , tanzania , killing 11 -- a huge explosion tore through the u.s. embassy in nairobi , kenya
the afsa ( afsa ) lists eight people as having died in the attack on its memorial remembering u.s. who died while serving the u.s. government abroad in a foreign affairs capacity
twelve u.s. total were killed
those are both jarring numbers , but they 're still a fraction of the more than 200 people total killed in the attack , in addition to more than 4,000 wounded
in may 2001 , a u.s. jury found four purported al qaeda members guilty on all charges stemming from the embassy bombings in kenya and tanzania
as his wife of 34 years looked on , foley was shot dead outside his home in amman , jordan , by a lone gunman in december 2002
a public servant for close to 40 years , the boston - born foley was serving as executive officer of the usaid mission in amman at the time
u.s. officials were quick to label foley 's killing a murder , with the head of the afsa calling it a " brutal terrorist attack
" they later implicated iraqi - based terrorist leader abu musab al-zarqawi for providing " financial and other support to the terrorists who assassinated " foley
exactly 11 years after the september 11 attacks in new york , washington and rural pennsylvania , terrorists struck at u.s. again -- this time some 5,000 miles away in the libyan city of benghazi
that 's where ambassador christopher stevens was when mortar and rocket fire struck a u.s. diplomatic annex there
christopher stevens did n't survive , nor did state department computer expert sean smith or tyrone woods and glen doherty , two former u.s. navy seals then acting as security contractors
the attack was first portrayed as violence by an angry mob responding to a video made in the u.s. that mocked islam and the prophet mohammed
but officials later determined that it was a terrorist attack
anne , a 25 - year - old public diplomacy officer at the u.s. embassy in kabul , was delivering books to a school in southern afghanistan when a suicide bomber smashed into her convoy
she died in that april 2013 attack , as did four others
" we thought she was relatively safe in the embassy compound , " her father tom smedinghoff told cnn
" but as it turned out , anne really wanted to do a lot more