the u.s. and great britain have pulled their last forces out of strife - torn yemen , raising fears that the failed state will become even more of a breeding ground for terror groups plaguing the middle eastern and the west
over the weekend , the u.s. evacuated the last of its special operations forces -- including navy seals and army delta force troops -- amid the deteriorating security situation in the country , the state department said
on monday , a security source in the region familiar with the situation in yemen told cnn 's nic robertson that uk special forces had also left yemen in the last few days
the uk ministry of defence declined to comment
the u.s. move came a day after terrorists bombed two mosques in the capital , sanaa , on friday , killing at least 137 and wounding 357 others , according to yemen 's state - run saba news agency
the terror group isis , based in syria , claimed responsibility for the attack
it also followed months of fighting between government forces and houthis rebels , who on sunday seized the international airport in taiz
the rebels now control both the airport and sanaa
yemen has been a key u.s. ally in the fight against al qaeda , allowing u.s. drones and special operations forces to stalk terrorists in the country
now , that arrangement is in tatters , along with any semblance of peace in the middle eastern nation
while state department spokesman jeff rathke said saturday that the u.s. would continue to " take action to disrupt continuing , imminent threats to the u.s. and our citizens , " the move left some wondering what role the u.s. could play with no forces on the ground
the country closed its embassy in sanaa last month
" i do n't think there is an active role for the u.s. other than intelligence and trying to see where the dust is going to settle , " said u.s. sen. angus king , a maine independent who serves on the senate armed services and intelligence committees
that raises the possibility of the already unstable country becoming an even more fertile environment for terror groups to collaborate , grow and export violence , according to robin wright , a security and defense analyst with the woodrow wilson center
" it 's becoming much like syria , much like afghanistan was at the peak of its instability , " she said
on sunday , u.n. officials said the country appeared to be on a " rapid downward spiral
" the security council again deplored the violence and called for an end to the fighting and for houthis rebels to return government facilities to the elected government of president hadi
but officials said recent events " seemed to be leading the country further away from a peaceful settlement and towards the edge of civil war
" in addition to counterterrorism issues , all sorts of geopolitical influences are at work in yemen -- chief among them the regional power play between regional rivals iran and saudis
the houthis rebels are shiites with ties to iran , who have long felt marginalized in majority yemen
sunni arab countries in the gulf cooperation council want to limit the influence of iran , particularly saudis , said cnn military analyst lt. col. francona
" they believe now that iran is in control in beirut , in damascus , in baghdad and now on their southern border in yemen , " francona said
" so the saudis are beginning to feel a little threatened here and are hoping the yemen situation does n't spiral out of control
" the saudis and other gulf arab nations have called for every effort to be made to roll back the houthis gains and hand full control back to hadi 's government
on monday , houthis leader abdul malik al-houthi criticized regional governments over their stance on the fighting
al-houthi said his group was striking back at al qaeda and isis in self defense , and said he found it " very strange " that nearby governments would condemn the group for such acts while welcoming the u.s. , which he called " the umbrella of tyranny in the world
" yemen : what you need to know about how we got here there 's little reason to believe the security council 's calls for peace will have much impact
last month the council slammed the rebels for taking over democratic institutions and holding officials under house arrest , with little effect on the fighting
last week , a yemeni jet commanded by the houthis fired missiles at a palace housing hadi in the port city of aden
no one was injured , but the direct strike marked an escalation in the deadly fighting between the two sides
that same day , yemeni military forces -- some under the houthis , others led by officers loyal to hadi -- battled in aden , leaving at least 13 people dead in the clashes , aden gov. abdul aziz hobtour said
the fighting is taking a huge toll on yemen 's people and economy , said rafat al akhali , the country 's former youth minister
aside from the direct impact of fighting , people are losing jobs and businesses are closing , he said
there 's still time , he said , to implement a political solution to the crisis
" i do n't think we 're past the point of no return yet , " he said
" i do n't see anything stopping a major war going on , " he said
cnn 's hakim almasmari , catherine e. shoichet , richard roth and stephanie halasz contributed to this report .