the sun will shine again
but if you ca n't stand another day of toe - numbing temperatures , start thinking about an escape to one of tripadvisor 's picks for the world 's best beaches
the travel site announced 332 winners of its annual travelers ' choice awards for beaches wednesday
the awards are based on the quantity and quality of traveler reviews for beaches gathered over 12 months
in addition to a global winners list , top beaches are listed by regions and countries , including lists for africa , asia , the caribbean , europe , south america , the south pacific , the united kingdom and the u.s.
the world 's best beach ? that would be baia do sancho on the brazilian island of fernando de noronha
for the second year in a row , the golden crescent hugged by rocky cliffs has earned the no. 1 spot on the global list
grace bay in providenciales , turks and caicos , has also retained its ranking as the no. 2 travelers ' choice beach in the world
here are tripadvisor 's top 10 beaches in the world : 1
baia do sancho , fernando de noronha , brazilian 2
grace bay , providenciales , turks and caicos 3
rabbit beach , lampedusa , italy 4
playa paraiso beach , cayo largo , cuba 5
playa de ses illetes , formentera , spain 6
anse lazio , praslin island , seychelles 7
white beach , boracay , philippines 8
flamenco beach , culebra , puerto rico 9
whitehaven beach , whitsunday islands , australia 10
elafonissi beach , elafonissi , crete , greece tripadvisor offers booking and rate comparisons at hotels and resorts in each location
world 's most spectacular cliffside beaches on the travelers ' choice list for the u.s. , florida made huge gains on hawaii this year
according to tripadvisor search traffic , interest in top 10 - ranked florida beaches is up on average 69 % year - over - year
last year 's list featured hawaiian beaches in seven of the top 10 spots , with only two florida beaches listed in the top 10
this year , six florida beaches ranked in the top 10 , with only three in hawaii
this year 's no. 1 u.s. beach , siesta beach in siesta key , florida , edged out last year 's top ranked lanikai beach in kailua , hawaii
here are 2015 's top 10 u.s. beaches : 1
siesta beach , siesta key , florida 2
st. pete beach , st. petersburg , florida 3
ka'anapali beach , lahaina , maui , hawaii 4
wai'anapanapa state park , hana , maui , hawaii 5
pensacola beach , pensacola beach , florida 6
la jolla cove , la jolla , california 7
kailua beach park , kailua , oahu , hawaii 8
clearwater beach , clearwater , florida 9
st. augustine beach , st. augustine , florida 10
beach at panama city , panama city beach , florida