a previously unknown group calling itself the islamic state hacking division posted the names , photos and addresses of about 100 u.s. troops online , calling for attacks against them
whoever created the file , posted online saturday before being removed , claimed to have hacked military databases and said it was leaking 100 names " so that our brothers residing in u.s. can deal with you
" the possibility of lone - wolf attacks in the u.s. , the type that this message calls for , is a threat officials take seriously
attorney general eric holder said last month that the threat of a lone - wolf attack inside the u.s. is one thing that keeps him awake at night
but there was nothing to immediately validate the claims made by this unknown group
a defense department official told cnn that it can not confirm the validity of the online posting , but is looking into the claim
the fbi is also looking into it , a law enforcement official told cnn , adding there are questions about the credibility of those behind it
the naval criminal investigative service notified the marine corps named in the file about this " presently unverified threat , " a marine corps spokesman said
the navy reminded service members to make sure to limit the amount of personal information available online about themselves
the army said in a statement sunday that it was working with the defense department to " determine the validity of any potential threats , " and it echoed the navy in advising soldiers " to take prudent measures to limit the sharing of personal information online
" a u.s. law enforcement official said that all 100 or so troops named in the file are being contacted
it is believed that isis members and sympathizers have been scouring social media sites trying to glean as much information as possible about service members , and have even threatened the spouses of military personnel online
the file appeared to include information that is already available publicly , through social media accounts , online phone directories and other accessible public records
in late november , the fbi issued a warning to u.s. military members that isis was calling for attacks against them , a law enforcement source told cnn
the source said that " overseas based individuals are looking for like - minded individuals in the u.s. to carry out these attacks
" the warning asked members of the military to " review their online social media presence for any information that might attract the attention of violent extremists
" the bulletin also said authorities were concerned that isis members were " spotting and assessing " individuals in the u.s. who may be interested in carrying out attacks inside the country against members of the military , a u.s. counterterror official told cnn
cnn 's barbara starr , pamela brown , kevin bohn and mary kay mallonee contributed to this report .