a u.s. air force veteran who allegedly tried to join isil in syria but was turned back by turkey authorities before he could get to the war - torn country entered a not guilty plea to terror - related charges wednesday in a federal court in new york
tairod pugh , accused of making the foiled attempt in january , was indicted by a grand jury on charges of trying to give material support to the terror group and obstruction of justice , the justice department said in a two - count indictment announced tuesday
among the evidence , prosecutors allege : investigators discovered on his laptop computer a letter saying he wanted to " use the talents and skills given to me by allah to establish and defend the islamic states , " and a chart of crossing points between turkey and syria , where isil controls some territory
who has been recruited to isil from the west ? pugh , a 47 - year - old convert to islam and a former new jersey resident who served in the air force from 1986 to 1990 , was arrested upon his return to the u.s. in january , the justice department said
" pugh , an u.s. citizen and former member of our military , allegedly abandoned his allegiance to the u.s. and sought to provide material support to isil , " assistant u.s. attorney general john carlin said , using an alternate acronym for the islamist terror group that controls territory in parts of iraq and syria
at his arraignment wednesday in u.s. district court in brooklyn , pugh appeared in a black t - shirt and khaki pants and stated his name
he pleaded not guilty through his attorney , michael schneider
the defendant , a former avionics instrument system specialist in the air force , flew from egypt to turkey on january 10 , weeks after being fired from a middle east - based job as an airplane mechanic , u.s. authorities allege
why is isil so successful at luring westerners ? but turkey denied him entry
in the indictment , u.s. authorities said turkey was likely suspicious pugh was headed for syria
instead turkey officials sent him on a return flight to egypt , where he was detained
in egypt , he was carrying multiple electronic devices , " including four usb thumb drives that had been stripped of their plastic casings and an ipod that had been wiped clean of data , " the justice department said in a statement
pugh had purposefully tampered with the devices to prevent others from getting access to his electronic media , the indictment said
pugh was deported to the u.s. , where agents with the fbi 's joint terrorism task force obtained a warrant for his devices , including the laptop , the department said
investigators found a letter from january addressed to a misha , whom they believe is his wife , authorities said
in it , the writer says : " i am a ( mujahedeen )
i am a sword against the oppressor and a shield for the oppressed
i will use the talents and skills given to me by allah to establish and defend the islamic states
" in addition to that letter and the turkey / syria border chart , agents also found recent internet searches for information on " borders controlled by islam state , " as well as " internet searches for ' flames of war , ' an isil propaganda video , " and " downloaded videos , including one showing isil members executing prisoners , " the justice department said
they also found what the government said was another 180 jihadist propaganda videos
pugh was arrested in asbury park , new jersey , on january 16
while in the air force , pugh was trained in installing and maintaining aircraft engine , navigation and weapons systems , the justice department said
pugh converted to islam after moving to san antonio in 1998 , according to the indictment
the indictment said he took a job as a mechanic with american airlines in or about 2001
the airline has not responded to a request for comment
in 2001 , an american airlines co-worker alerted the fbi that pugh " sympathized with osama bin laden , felt that the 1998 bombings of u.s. embassies overseas were justified , and expressed anti-american sentiment , " the complaint said
one year later , an associate told the fbi that pugh had expressed interest in traveling to chechnya to " fight jihad
" from october 2009 to march 2010 , he worked in iraq as an army contractor for dyncorp , according to the complaint
according to pugh 's linkedin page , he listed himself as a maintenance manager for gryphon , a kuwait - based charter airline , since september 2014
but the airline told cnn that pugh was only under consideration to work for it in 2014
" in third quarter 2014 , mr. pugh was under consideration for a future gryphon project , but did not meet the qualifications , " the airline said in a statement
" gryphon declined to hire mr. pugh
gryphon personnel are cooperating with the authorities
" his last known u.s. address was in neptune , new jersey , but he had lived in egypt for about the last year , the indictment said
if convicted , pugh could be sentenced to up to 35 years in prison
cnn 's ray sanchez , john newsome and steve almasy contributed to this report .