the news that the u.s. military will charge army sgt. bowe bergdahl with desertion for abandoning his post in afghanistan revives a deeply disturbing and morally wrenching incident in u.s. 's troubled war in afghanistan
from the moment last year that the world learned about the prisoner - swap deal that secured his freedom , the questions that surrounded begdahl 's disappearance gained significance
after all , the u.s. had agreed to a very high price for his release
based on the evidence that has come to public light , desertion seems the right charge against bowe bergdahl , whose comrades say he walked away , abandoning his commitments as a soldier in a war and creating new and greater dangers for them
but even before the charges were filed , there were other question whose answers are emerging
was the u.s. right to negotiate a high - price trade ? did " leave no man behind " trump " no negotiating with terrorists " ? and if it did , did the importance of saving one man outweigh the dictate not to pay ransom even if that man was a traitor or a deserter ? new information about his disappearance and life of the people freed in exchange for bowe bergdahl make the case all the more troubling
bowe bergdahl , you will recall , spent five years as a prisoner of the haqqanis , a group allied with the taliban organization , u.s. 's principal enemy in afghanistan
taliban fighters had captured him in june 2009 , just after bergdahl , apparently disenchanted with the military , left his post in southeastern afghanistan
the taliban handed the u.s. soldier to the haqqanis , who shuttled him between locations as they and their partners negotiated for his release , seeking to maximize the profit from their valuable captive
in may 2014 they struck a deal
five taliban commanders were flown out of the u.s. prison at guantanamo , freed in exchange for the u.s. soldier whose disappearance many had already labeled a desertion
a strikingly pale bowe bergdahl , blinking painfully against the bright sun as he was handed over to u.s. officials
the scene contrasted sharply with a video of the taliban chiefs ' receiving a heroes ' welcome in qatari , where they prepared for a new life after their u.s. captivity
national security adviser susan rice said bowe bergdahl had served with " honor and distinction
" if that had been the case , the trade would have proved much less controversial
but from the moment bowe bergdahl went missing there had been questions
in the letters he wrote home before vanishing , bowe bergdahl showed a steady erosion of his faith in the military and belief in the mission
" the future is too good to waste on lies , " he told his parents
" and life is way too short to care for the damnation of others
" men who had served with bowe bergdahl said he had simply walked off the base carrying little more than a compass
not only would such a move constitute near - suicidal foolishness , it also put his comrades in great danger , particularly as they set out on a desperate quest to find him
what has been the cost of bowe bergdahl 's odyssey ? some said the search for him cost the lives of six u.s. soldiers
the specific circumstances are complicated , but it is clear that the six died in paktika province in the months after bowe bergdahl vanished , during a period in which every mission , even if not directly aimed at finding bowe bergdahl , included some element of a search
as one former team leader told cnn , " when those soldiers were killed , they would not have been where they were if bowe bergdahl had not left
" one of them , 2nd lt andrews , received a posthumous silver star for saving the lives of five soldiers during a mission that had shifted from searching for a taliban target to looking for bowe bergdahl
andrews left behind a pregnant wife and a 2 - year - old son
then there is the cost of signaling to the taliban , of telling all of u.s. 's enemies , that if they capture a u.s. service member they could trade him for a ransom
this could endanger other u.s.
and there is another potential cost : the men who were freed in exchange for bowe bergdahl could go on to fight again
the more you learn about the details of their post-guantanamo lives , the more distressing the transaction looks
under the terms of the deal , qatari agreed to keep the former prisoners from leaving the country for one year
in the meantime , they are said to be living a life of fantastic comfort and luxury , courtesy of their gracious qatari hosts
according to reports , they have each been allowed to bring five more families to keep them company
the 35 taliban households are living in the lap of qatari luxury , but the fighters are getting restless
at least two of the former guantanamo detainees reportedly want to go back to the battlefield , perhaps adding to the eventual tally of the bowe bergdahl transaction
now bowe bergdahl will face his punishment ; he could be sentenced to life in prison for what the military says was desertion and misbehavior , and what his comrades said was a shameful betrayal -- one that cost lives
the question remains , should the u.s. have traded for this man ? my sense is that the u.s. has a duty to the soldiers it sends to war
all soldiers should know that their country will do what it takes to bring them back
u.s. could not leave bowe bergdahl to die in a mountain cave , especially if it did not know with certainty the circumstances of his disappearance -- but even if it did
whether the obama administration negotiated as effectively as it could have is another matter
on that count , i am skeptical
the trade -- bowe bergdahl for several hardened prisoners -- was a heart - splitting dilemma , but it was the right call .