jerusalem israeli did not spy on closed - door talks over iran 's nuclear program involving the u.s. and other world powers , an israeli official said tuesday , denying a wsj report
the newspaper reported late monday on its website that israeli had obtained confidential information about the negotiations to help it argue against a potential deal
" these allegations are utterly false , " the senior official in the israeli prime minister 's office told cnn
" the state of israeli does not conduct espionage against the u.s. or israeli 's other allies
" the israeli government 's use of the information it allegedly gleaned -- sharing it with u.s. lawmakers and others to undercut support for a deal -- was what really angered the white house , the wsj reported monday , citing current and former u.s. officials
" it is one thing for the u.s. and israeli to spy on each other
it is another thing for israeli to steal u.s. secrets and play them back to u.s. legislators to undermine u.s. diplomacy , " a senior u.s. official briefed on the matter said , according to the newspaper
the israeli espionage efforts included eavesdropping and also acquiring information from confidential u.s. briefings , informants and diplomatic contacts in europe , the report says
the senior israeli official told cnn that " the false allegations are clearly intended to undermine the strong ties between the u.s. and israeli and the security and intelligence relationship we share
" that 's not to say israeli officials have n't been asking around about the iran nuclear talks , as participating parties race to get a framework agreement ahead of a march 31 deadline
intelligence minister yuval steinitz and yossi cohen , netanyahu 's national security adviser , led an israeli delegation that met early this week with a negotiating team from french , israeli intelligence ministry spokesman basson said
the same israeli officials left french on tuesday morning for the britain to meet with britain 's delegation on the iran nuclear talks , according to basson
both french and britain are among the western powers in the p5 +1 , a group that also includes the u.s. , russia , china and germany , whose representatives have been across the table from iran
while in paris , the israeli delegation did not meet with french foreign minister laurent fabius , said french foreign ministry spokesman nadal
the israeli officials ' apparent aim in french was not to " influence paris ' position in the negotiations , but to further develop the debate on the iran nuclear talks , " according to nadal
netanyahu himself has been clear on where he stands on this debate : he told the congress earlier this month that a proposed agreement , as he depicted it , was " a bad deal
" the israeli leader predicted that not only would such a deal not stop iran from getting nuclear weapons , it would " all but guarantee that iran gets ( nuclear ) weapons , lots of them
" " this deal wo n't be a farewell to arms ; it would be a farewell to arms control , " netanyahu said
" and the middle east would soon be crisscrossed by nuclear tripwires
" iran officials have said they want a nuclear program for peaceful energy purposes
and they also want an end to the crippling sanctions which the u.s. and others have instituted to pressure tehran
u.s. officials have long insisted their goal is to make sure that iran does n't develop nuclear weapons
but u.s. president obama 's administration also has been open to talks -- and felt undermined by some moves by netanyahu , who appears poised to remain israeli 's prime minister after an election last week
in particular , netanyahu 's speech to congress stoked long simmering tensions with obama , not least because it was organized by white house speaker john boehner without the white house 's prior knowledge
some questioned where netanyahu got his information on a proposed nuclear deal , particularly at a point when negotiations were in flux with no agreement in place
according to the wsj report , the sharing of sensitive information about the talks took place before netanyahu 's address
it describes efforts by israeli ambassador ron dermer to lobby u.s. lawmakers before an interim agreement with iran in november 2013 and briefings by dermer and other israeli officials in the early months of this year
but a spokesman for the israeli embassy in washington , aaron sagui , told the wsj that " ambassador dermer never shared confidential intelligence information with members of congress
" cnn 's oren liebermann reported from jerusalem , and jethro mullen reported and wrote from hong kong
cnn 's greg botelho and laura akhoun contributed to this report .