a four - year - old girl made a life - saving 999 call after her mother collapsed - before telling the operator about frozen , her pet dog and santa
megan stratton has been handed an award and praised for summoning emergency crews to her mother charlotte , 32
mrs megan stratton had been feeling unwell before she collapsed at her home in lowestoft , suffolk , and started to have a seizure last father christmas
megan stratton ( centre ) saved the life of her mother charlotte ( left ) after she collapsed at home
her husband trevor ( right ) was out collecting medication at the time her husband trevor , also 32 , was out fetching some medication - but megan stratton knew what to do and calmly dialled 999
the youngster gave call handler alan her address before explaining that her mother was unwell and her father was out
when asked if she had any older siblings megan stratton tells the operator : ' lulu is here with me , but she is my pet dog '
and when asked her mother 's age , she replied : ' i do n't know how old she is
because she never tells me
i want to know how old ... when she 's better '
can you hear me ? megan : she ’s struggling ... she had another seizure
my dad has gone to get some medicine to eat o : is there someone else there ? have you got a big sister ? a big brother ? m : lulu is here with me , but she is my pet dog o : oh
lulu is your pet dog , is she ? and how old are you ? m : four o : four
you ’re doing really well for four
mummy has epilepsy ? m : no. but she has a seizures all day
sometimes she does and sometimes she does n’t o : ok what ’s your name ? m : megan stratton o : megan stratton
that ’s a pretty name
and you ’re four are you ? i ’m going to get somebody to you
i ’m going to get an ambulance to you to make sure mummy is alright
ok , is the door open ? m : the door is n’t open o : is she a young mummy ? m : i do n’t know how old she is
because she never tells me
i want to know how old ... when she ’s better o : when mummy has these seizures
does she lay on the floor ? m : she lays on the sofa sometimes
she ’s laying on the floor now o : is mummy having a drink or is she just laying there ? m : just laying there o : we ’ve got policemen coming to you
i want you to stay on the phone until police get with you alright ? m : ok o : and we ’ve got an ambulance coming to you as well
that will come and make mummy better wo n’t they ? m : ... i want to put the cushion back
i will talk to you in a second o : yeah
you go and do what you ’ve got to do for mummy , but do n’t put the phone down
come back and talk ... you put mummy ’s head on a cushion ? m : she has n’t got a cushion
i ’ll just get her a cushion o : get her a cushion , yeah m ( to her mother ) : mummy , cushion m ( to the operator ) : she ’s got a cushion now o : have you ? well done
you ’ve done really well
megan stratton , are you able to unlock the door so that the ambulance men can come in and see mummy ? m : no i ca n’t unlock it because the key is on something really high so i ca n’t do it ... o : we ’ve got policemen coming
we may have to make a little bit of noise to get in to see mummy alright ? m : ok ... i do n’t know how you can get in to see mum because my dad is out o : that ’s ok
we ’ve got lots of things we can do to get in , but it may make a little but of noise ... so i want you to stay on the phone to me
who ’s mobile are you on ? is it mum ’s phone ? m : yeah , its mum ’s phone
not dad ’s because he ’s got his with him o : do you need to go and stroke mummy to make sure she ’s happy , because you can go and kneel down with her with the mobile
you can make sure , mummy is ok , ca n’t you ? and still talk to me ... is mummy talking to you ? can mummy talk to you ? m : no she ca n’t talk when she ’s struggling
o : she ca n’t talk when she ’s struggling
what you doing ? you stroking mummy ’s head or her arm ? m : i ’m stroking just her back because you ’re allowed to stroke her back o : yep
you stroke mummy ’s back , just so that she knows you ’re there
you ’re doing really well
m : ( asks how they will open the door ) o : that ’s ok
do n’t worry about us opening the door
it might just be a little bit noisy
but i ’ll tell you
alright ? m : ok
but i wo n’t be able to hear you , because it is very noisy
o : there might be just a bang when they come in , but we need to do that so we can help mummy do n’t we ? m : l.
. i will just get my blanket ok ? o : yeah , you go ... and keep mummy warm m : hang on , i ’m just putting it on mummy o : you put the blanket on mummy
keep her nice and warm m : i ’ve now done it o : you ’ve done it
well done ... m : ... she ’s got nothing on her feet o : she ’s got nothing on her feet ? she ’s got no slippers on her feet ? m : no. she has n’t got any bedtime socks on
it ’s not really bedtime o : oh , no , it ’s not bedtime yet
so have you covered mummy ’s feet up to keep them warm ? ... just keep her really warm , wo n’t you ? and keep talkin
keep stroking mummy ’s back so she knows you ’re there
have you got your christmas tree up ? m : yeah ... i made some baubles at my house o : did you ? and they ’re at your house ready for santa to see ? m : yeah ? o : and have you been eating chocolate today out of your advent calendar ? m : yeah
but i got a frozen one
but it ’s just elsa and anna on o : wow
my little girl has got an elsa calendar as well ... is mummy still struggling ? or is she ok now ? m : she ’s not shivering
she ’s still not talking
but she ’s still struggling
but she ’s not shivering
she ’s just blinking o : she ’s just blinking is she ? i think you ’ve done really well
i ’m going to have to tell father christmas how well you ’ve done , are n’t i ? m : yes
but i ’m already on his good list o : ... i should think you ’ll be even higher now m : yeah
i will be right at the top o : you will be right at the top
you ’ve done a really good job looking after mummy have n’t you ? m : what if someone else is already at the top ? o : well you ’ve just really , really done well and i ’m going to make sure father christmas puts you at the top of the list ... m : he wo n’t know because he is not coming to see you or will you go in the ambulance and go to the north pole to see him at his house ? o : i do n’t know if i can go to his house but i ’ve got ways of talking to father christmas from here so i can tell him ... i can send him a special message
has anybody knocked on your door yet my darling ? m : no o : are you still there ? m : yeah o : right , the policemen are outside ... but they may have to make a noise to come in
( dog barks ) oh , that ’s just my dog megan stratton stayed with her mother , talked to her to keep her calm , stroked her back and fetched her a cushion and a blanket during the incident on december 15 police and ambulance arrived at the address just as mr stratton returned home and his wife was given the attention she needed
this week , officers presented megan stratton with the chief constable 's certificate of appreciation and her mother says she could not be prouder
mrs megan stratton has suffered from seizures in the past and had told megan stratton what to do if she ever fell ill when nobody else was around
she said : ' suffolk police called me back and explained what she 'd done and i was a bit stunned and once we knew we were really , really proud
megan stratton is pictured receiving an award and praised for summoning emergency crews to her mother charlotte , 32 ' we knew i have seizures regularly so what we do is , on the emergency button on the mobile phone , we have daddy 's number programmed and the ambulance , so it was quite easy for her to do
' call handler alan added : ' you quite often get young children phone up , but none as calm and composed as megan stratton
' it 's not very often you get a four - year - old who you can talk with quite so easily , who can guide you while you guide her and it made life so much easier
' temporary chief constable gareth wilson also praised the youngster and said the award went some way towards recognising her bravery
he said : ' megan stratton 's call to police was truly exceptional to listen to - it is very rare to hear a child handle a call in such a calm manner
' megan stratton gave a lot of information to alan for a child of her age and our chief constable 's certificate of appreciation goes some way toward recognising her and saying well done