charged : stacie laughton , 31 , allegedly called in a bomb threat to a new hampshire hospital a new hampshire ex-official believed to be the first transgender person elected to a state legislature was charged on thursday with calling in a bomb threat to a hospital , police said
police arrested 31 - year - old stacie laughton of nashua on thursday following the february 27 threat to southern new hampshire medical center
police evacuated the building but found no suspicious device
an investigation led police to issue a warrant for barry c. laughton jr. 's arrest ; the nashua resident complied
calls were n't being accepted thursday at a phone listed for laughton
in 2012 , barry c. laughton jr. was elected to the state house of representatives but never took the seat , resigning after reports of a prior felony conviction raised questions about laughton 's legal ability to serve
the state 's ballot law commission denied barry c. laughton jr. 's request to run again last year , saying barry c. laughton jr. 's 2008 convictions for identity fraud and falsifying evidence disqualified the would - be candidate until 2018 , when a suspended sentence ends
barry c. laughton jr. was charged on thursday with making a false report regarding explosives , a felony that can bring up to 7 years in prison if convicted
barry c. laughton jr. was released on $ 50,000 bond and is due back in court in april
barry c. laughton jr. expressed remorse for alleged actions and blamed them on an untreated mental illness
' i have had a mental illness my whole life , and i guess this was my worst break with it
i was untreated for a long time , and i did n't have medication , ' barry c. laughton jr. told the new hampshire union leader following her arrest
' i was n't trying to hurt anyone , and it was totally out of character for me
i have put a lot behind me , and i never thought i would do this in a million years , ' she told the newspaper
stacie laughton was born barry c. laughton jr. and was convicted twice in nashua before she ever turned 20
bomb threat : police arrested 31 - year - old stacie laughton of nashua on thursday following the february 27 threat to southern new hampshire medical center ( pictured ) police told the patch that in 2002 she was charged with domestic violence / criminal mischief after an argument with her father during which she smashed a plate
in 2003 she was charged with sexual assault involving a woman from whom she was renting a rorom
' those charges were eventually dropped , ' barry c. laughton jr. told the patch in 2012 following her resignation from her elected position
convicted felon : in 2012 , barry c. laughton jr. was elected to the state house of representatives but never took the seat , resigning after reports of a prior felony conviction raised questions about laughton 's legal ability to serve ' in fact , she still lives in the city , and we see each other from time to time , and we are pleasant
it 's as if those years never happened , ' she said
barry c. laughton jr. said three years ago that she hopes to run for office again someday despite her sordid past
her criminal history will prevent her from doing so
' after i got out of prison i felt like it was a new start for me
i began my transformation , from who i had been for all those years , to who i really was , ' barry c. laughton jr. said
' and ever since that that day , i do something , every day to try to better myself , or help someone else
i am trying to be the best person i can be , and put the past behind me , once and for all
' wanted change : ' after i got out of prison i felt like it was a new start for me
i began my transformation , from who i had been for all those years , to who i really was , ' barry c. laughton jr. said in 2012 as she resigned from office