a driver 's dash cam has captured a heart - stopping moment when his vehicle slammed into a head - on collision with a truck
the footage shows a red mazda hatchback driving along kingsford smith drive in brisbane when a truck turned onto the gateway motorway at a red arrow and onto oncoming traffic
the black ute on the right lane can be seen stopping at the intersection in time to avoid a near - miss collision as the truck made its turn
but it appears the driver of the red vehicle , known only as brad , did not attempt to brake or swerve at the time
shocking footage has emerged of a truck turning at a red arrow and onto oncoming traffic in brisbane the incident , which was filmed on february 17 , has attracted more than 90,000 views within three hours after being posted on facebook on monday night
dash cam owners australia , which shared the video on their page , assured that no one had sustained any serious injuries and the driver of the car suffered a minor whiplash
a caption along the video said : ' truck driver ran a red arrow heading onto the gateway motorway off kingsford smith drive
17/2/15 driver escaped with a bit of whiplash
' the black ute on the right lane can be seen stopping at the intersection as the truck made its turn but it appears the driver in the red mazda did not attempt to brake or swerve in time as the truck turned the driver of the mazda captured a heart - stopping moment when his vehicle collided with an oncoming truck dash cam owners australia assured the driver of the red mazda only suffered a minor whiplash the horrific video has accumulated almost 500 shares and has received a significant amount of mixed responses from members of the public
buzz quick posted : ' as a truck driver i must say ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
. what the truck was he thinking ? ' andrew wylie wrote : ' sweet looking mazda
. but were they paying attention at all ? not even a partial nose dive to indicate they hit the brakes
' sarah larkins said : ' is everyone forgetting the ute was partially blocking the view of the truck for the mazda ? ? ' leon davis posted : ' remember the camera is n't in line with the driver so he would have seen the truck after the camera does hence why he had little time to brake