vettel laughed off rosberg ’s claim that he hopes ferrari can catch mercedes during a spiky press conference after sunday 's australian grand prix
lewis hamilton , who romped to victory at the season - opening race in melbourne , and team - mate rosberg , finished more than half - a - minute clear of vettel to seal an utterly dominant weekend for the world champions
after the race , rosberg said he hoped ferrari would be able to bring the challenge to mercedes , with he and lewis hamilton expected to dominate this term having won 16 of the 19 races in 2014
lewis hamilton was caught in the middle as rosberg ( left ) and vettel traded jibes lewis hamilton ca n't keep a straight face as vettel laughs off claims he hopes ferrari catch mercedes this season but his suggestion provoked a spiky response from vettel , the four - time world champion who celebrated his ferrari debut with a podium finish
‘ be honest , do you really hope so ? ’ quizzed vettel when rosberg claimed ‘ it would be good if they [ ferrari ] can come a bit closer ’
vettel added : ‘ seriously ? you finished 30 seconds ahead of us and you hope it ’s going to be closer ? so you hope you slow down ? is that what you ’re saying ? ’ rosberg responded : ‘ i hope that you can give us a challenge
because it ’s important for the sport and for the fans
and i do think about the show
i want to give people a great time at home watching on tv or at the track
if you do come a bit closer , that would be awesome for everybody
’ vettel points to the crowd as he celebrates his first ferrari podium on his debut for the famous italian team the four - time world champion finished the best part of 30 seconds behind lewis hamilton and rosberg on sunday former red bull driver vettel then called on his german compatriot to give him a guided tour of the mercedes garage at the next race in malaysia
‘ you can come if you want , we can invite you , ’ said rosberg
‘ ok , thank you for the invite , i ’ll come , ' vettel replied
the spat continued when vettel said it was ‘ a shame ’ that his team - mate kimi did n’t finish the race – the finn was forced to retire after his pit - crew failed to properly attach his rear - left tyre during his second stop
‘ you find it a shame that your team - mate did n’t finish ? ’ quizzed rosberg , seemingly still irked by vettel ’s earlier interrogation
i do n’t know how much you like each other , ’ answered vettel in reference to rosberg ’s relationship with lewis hamilton , which descended into chaos at times last season as they vied for the title
‘ but kimi and myself we get along , so i think it is a shame , ' vettel added
lewis hamilton saw off the challenge from rosberg to win the opening race of the new season video hamilton cruises to victory in australian gp q : question to both lewis hamilton and rosberg
we ’ve seen dominance in qualifying , dominance in the race today
is this it for the season ? a two - horse race between you two for the title or can you envisage any of your rivals making in - roads into your supremacy ? lh : i think rosberg was just explaining … i did n’t know , i did n’t see the times or anything but i think the ferraris have taken a huge step forward
it ’s clear they ’ve made one of the biggest steps
so we definitely can not back off because i ’m sure they ’re going to be pushing
and i anticipate we might have a good fight with them at some stage this year … rosberg ? nr : i hope we can have a good fight
i think the next couple of races we ’re going to be leading the way for sure , and we ’re going to try and keep it that way , but we know it would be good if they can come a bit closer , as long as they do n’t come too close … sv : be honest
do you really hope so ? seriously ? you finished 30 seconds ahead of us and you hope it ’s going to be closer ? so you hope you slow down ? is that what you ’re saying ? nr : i hope that you can give us a challenge ! because it ’s important for the sport and for the fans
and i do think about the show
half of me – or a part of me – thinks about the show because i want to give people a great time at home watching on tv or at the track
if you do come a bit closer , that would be awesome for everybody
sv : first suggestion , if you do n’t mind , i think your garage becomes public for malaysia and everyone can have a look
no ? i ’m joking
nr : you can come if you want , we can invite you … sv : ok , thank you for the invite , i ’ll come
nr : friday malaysia , ok
sv : engineers ’ room ? debrief , i ’ll be there
q : vettel , among the races to come , which one do you feel will be the one that is easier for you , for ferrari to catch up to the mercedes ? i think malaysia will be difficult but what about bahrain or shanghai ? sv : easy , for us ? i think if you look at the gap , nowhere is going to be easy
i think we have to focus on ourselves , make sure that what we learned this weekend we ’re able to take into the next races
the most important thing now is that if we finish – we did finish right behind mercedes today
we need to confirm that in the next race , that ’s the priority number one , so we need to make sure that i was not just a one - off
as i said , kimi did n’t finish , which is a shame
we could have scored a lot more points today
nr : ... that you find it a shame that your teammate did n’t finish ? sv : yes
i do n’t know how much you like each other but kimi and myself we get along , so i think it is a shame
nr : i though as a racing driver you might like it that you have a couple of points advantage over him now
i do n’t want to get you off the foot there , sorry
look at him , look at him go ... sv : i can see your point
no , no. i can see that at the moment , where we are , we want to make sure we catch you guys and to do that we both need to score
yes , i honestly think so and i honestly did n’t want to see the second car not finishing today
nr : because i ’m ready for it now , you caught me a bit off guard before but now i ’m ready for it ! teen sensation verstappen missed out on finishing in the points in his grand prix bow
verstappen , 17 , the youngest driver in f1 history , was running in ninth before mechanical gremlins struck
he was forced to park his toro rosso after 32 laps , which , in a remarkable coincidence , was the same number his father jos completed before retiring on his 1994 f1 debut in brazil
lewis hamilton ’s win , the 34th of his gp career , means he has won seven of the last eight races
it leaves him five shy of vettel , fourth on the all - time list , and seven adrift of boyhood hero ayrton senna
it is understood that susie , the british racer , will not deputise for valtteri bottas in malaysia if the finn fails to recover from his back problem
‘ susie is our test driver , not our reserve driver , ’ said the team ’s boss claire williams .