a very proud farmer has woken up to 40,000 followers on twitter after live - tweeting his beloved sheepdog giving birth to ten puppies on friday
rebanks , a farmer from the lake district in england , has been chronicling the pregnancy of one of his sheepdogs floss from his herdwick sheep farm in anticipation of her due date
early on friday , mr rebanks tweeted ' floss doing fine
( other than she is fed up ) ' , before the action started and puppies started appearing one by one
within an hour and a half , four pups had been born , and the farmer continued to chronicle the birth , and his children 's reaction to their newborn playmates
' growing up on a farm has its great moments ... ' he tweeted , along with a photo of his children holding several of the pups
' i 've had five puppies ... i might have more ' , mr rebanks tweeted after three hours
he reported that floss was ' knackered ' after the birth of her seventh pup , as his children reluctantly headed to bed despite the action looking to continue
less than an hour after reporting that floss was still ' bursting at the seams ' , mr rebanks tweeted that the first of her puppies had been delivered safely the busy farmer went to bed himself and woke up seven hours later to ten healthy puppies wriggling about their tired mum
' floss is going to be ... er.
. a bit busy ... ten pups to raise ... ten little limpets on her teats ... , ' he tweeted
mr rebanks reported that his children were determined to spend as much time with the newborn puppies as possible
' we are going to school dad ... but not until we have made friends with these puppies '
despite the excitement and exhaustion of the night , the farmer reported that having ten puppies around would be ' fun ' , and said that his herdwick sheep should watch out for their future herders
the busy farmer went to bed himself and woke up seven hours later to ten healthy puppies wriggling about their tired mum ' sheep be warned
cavalry is coming , ' he said
after mr rebanks tweets garnered attention from social media users all over the world , he woke to a staggering 40,000 twitter followers
' where did you all come from ? been feeding my sheep and suddenly lots of new followers and whizzed past 40k
hello , ' he tweeted
mr rebanks is no stranger to surges in his twitter followers , after gaining nearly 20,000 followers for his photos of his prized herdwick sheep on the social media site
mr rebanks , whose family has been farming in the district for almost 600 years , is also the author of the shepherd 's life : a tale of the lake district .