dozens of aging u.s. veterans , many in their early 90s and some in wheelchairs , gathered on the tiny , barren island of iwo jima on saturday to mark the 70th anniversary of one of the bloodiest and most iconic battles of world war more than 30 veterans flown in from the u.s. island territory of guam toured the black sand beaches where they invaded the deeply dug - in forces of the island 's japanese defenders in early 1945
they were bused to the top of mount suribachi , an active volcano , where an associated press photo of the raising of the u.s. flag while the battle was still raging became a potent symbol of hope and valor to a war - weary public back home that was growing increasingly disillusioned with the seemingly unending battle in the pacific
the battle is one of world war 's bloodiest and most iconic battles a u.s. veteran with uniform attends a ceremony commemorating the 70th anniversary of the battle of iwo jima - now known officially as iwo jima - in japanese on saturday iconic : in this february 23 , 1945 file photo , u.s. marines raise a u.s. flag atop mount suribachi , iwo jima
the pacific island became the site of one of the bloodiest , most famous battles of world war against japanese attack : the fifth division marine invaders make their way up the beach of iwo jima in 1945 for some of the veterans , the return to the island where many of their comrades died , and which is still inhabited only by a contingent of japanese military troops , brought out difficult emotions
' i hated them , ' said former sgt. john roy coltrane , 93 , of siler city , north carolina
' for 40 years , i would n't even buy anything made in japanese
but now i drive a honda
' speeches at the reunion of honor ceremony held near the invasion beach were made by senior japanese politicians and descendants of the few japanese who survived the battle
family members of the soldiers who died in the battle of iwo jima offer water on the cenotaph on iwo jima family members of the soldiers who died in the battle of iwo jima walk around a battery on iwo jima also speaking were u.s. secretary of the navy ray mabus and gen. joseph dunford , the commandant of the marines , who noted that the battle for iwo jima remains the ' very ethos ' of the marines today
' we should never forget that the peace and prosperity of japanese and the u.s. at present has been built on the sacrifice of precious lives , ' japanese defense minister gen nakatani said in his remarks
this was the first time that japanese cabinet officials attended the anniversary ceremony , now in its 16th year
and while the presence of veterans able to make the grueling trip has been steadily dwindling , the number of participants — about 500 — was double that of last year because of the significance of the 70th year since japanese 's surrender ended world war after the joint memorial , the u.s. and japanese dignitaries and guests went their separate ways to visit the parts of the island that were of the most significance to their own troops
the japanese have erected several memorials to their dead , and in a traditional way of placating their souls poured water and placed flowers on the memorial sites
u.s. veterans pay respect at the iwo jima battle monument during a ceremony commemorating the 70th anniversary of the battle of iwo jima u.s. navy secretary ray mabus , left in the middle , offers a wreath during a ceremony commemorating the 70th anniversary of the battle of iwo jima
dozens of aging u.s. veterans gathered on the tiny , barren island the color guard of the marines and japan self defense force hold the flags of the u.s. and japanese during a ceremony commemorating the 70th anniversary of the battle of iwo jima veterans and relatives of the dead returned to the japanese island of iwo jima saturday , 70 years after one of the bloodiest battles of world war , to commemorate the 29,000 lives claimed in the fighting brutal : the battle of iwojima lasted about a month after u.s. forces landed in february 1945
about 22,000 japanese soldiers and 7,000 u.s. servicemen died in the battle
this photo was taken february 20 the marines invaded iwo jima in february 1945 , and it was only declared secured after more than a month of fighting
about 70,000 u.s. troops fought more than 20,000 japanese — only 216 japanese were captured as pows and the rest are believed to have been either killed in action or to have taken their own lives
the island was declared secure on march 16 , 1945 , but skirmishes continued
in about 36 days of battle , nearly 7,000 u.s. marines were killed and 20,000 wounded
family members of japanese soldiers who died in the battle of iwo jima , take photographs of the memorial monument after a ceremony commemorating the 70th anniversary of the battle on iwo jima japanese 's defense minister gen nakatani , right , and other japanese officials offer a wreath during a ceremony commemorating the 70th anniversary of the battle of iwo jima on saturday it is to this day considered sacred ground to many japanese
as a haunting reminder of the ferocity of the fighting , search teams continue to dig up more and more japanese remains each year — it 's estimated that 12,000 have yet to be found
the u.s. returned the island to japanese in 1968
wreckage of military equipment can still be seen dotting some of the beach areas , along with pill boxes and extensive mazes of caves
though the idea of developing the island for tourism has been mulled for decades , and possibly using its natural hot springs as an attraction , the island is virtually untouched other than the small airfield used by the japanese
though a tiny volcanic crag , the island — now called iwo jima or iwo jima on japanese maps — was deemed strategically important because it was being used by the japanese to launch air attacks on u.s. bombers
iwo jima , now known officially as iwo jima , is seen from an airplane in japanese , saturday , march 21 , 2015
the u.s. and japanese held the ceremony saturday to mark the 70th anniversary of one of world war 's bloodiest battles after its capture , it was used by the u.s. as an emergency landing site for b - 29s , which eventually made 2,900 emergency landings there that are estimated to have saved the lives of 24,000 airmen who would have otherwise had to crash at sea
twenty - seven medal of honor were awarded for action in the battle , more than any other in u.s. military history
the only surviving medal of honor recipient from iwo jima , hershel ' woody ' williams , 91 , attended the ceremony
afterward , he said his feelings toward the japanese had not changed in the decades since the battle
' they were just doing their jobs , just like we were , ' he said
' we tried to kill them before they could kill us