racing will shake up its tv tender process this summer by asking broadcasters which races they want to bid for rather than restricting them to specific packages
the sport is not in a position to dictate terms , in contrast to football ’s pl
the new going rate of £ 11million per live pl match dwarves the £ 4.8m per year c4 pay for their monopoly terrestrial coverage
and even such an outstanding day of racing as the opening tuesday of the cheltenham saw a worrying drop in c4 viewing figures , with the peak of 910,000 a significant 71,000 down on the previous year ’s figure
annie power falls at the last fence on an action - packed first day at cheltenham on tuesday - but tv figures on c4 were still down 71,000 on last year 's event racing media group , the tv arm of english racing , remain remarkably pleased with c4 ’s coverage , which runs until the end of 2016 , despite the decline in armchair watchers
but allowing tv networks to customise their bids means racing could separately sell its crown jewels — cheltenham , royal ascot , the derby and grand national — to terrestrial channels
other marquee meetings may follow
this makes commercial sense , especially as racing is already well served by two subscription channels for the run - of - the - mill meetings
the secret of irish trainer mullins ’s remarkable success at cheltenham may be there for all to see , emblazoned on his horse boxes parked at the cheltenham
the promotional message is ‘ what a difference the hay makes ’
mullins gets the specially selected hay for his county kildare stables from alberta in canada , through supplier ransley hay , based in ashford , kent
they say : ‘ mr mullins is one of our best customers , so naturally we look after him
’ co-authored with michael moritz , the book will detail alex ferguson 's tactics and management techniques publishers hodder & stoughton look to have already maximised their investment in sir alex ferguson with two seven - figure advances and two best - selling autobiographies
yet alex ferguson , as if £ 2m for 20 days ’ work as a manchester united ambassador is n’t enough to augment his pension , will no doubt be trousering another £ 1m plus advance for a leadership book based on his harvard business school work , written with tycoon sir michael moritz
however , one subject sure to receive little attention in the book is alex ferguson ’s fall - out with jp mcmanus over the breeding rights to champion racehorse rock of gibraltar
their paths will cross only accidentally at cheltenham on thursday
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
top football agent barnett claims the fa have not properly consulted with the middle men ahead of bringing in new regulations
next month ’s changes may be the subject of an injunction
and barnett — who says his stellar agency , run with david manasseh , is now the biggest in the world in terms of representing players — declared : ‘ it ’s ridiculous the fa have not bothered to come and see and learn how a big football agency operates
they have n’t got a clue at wembley
‘ they are bringing in unworkable rules without finding out about the business , especially when an agency of our size is on their doorstep
’ the fa say they are following guidelines from fifa , who have passed the buck on to national associations to manage agents
inverdale ’s evening out john inverdale is understood to have lost his bbc position presenting wimbledon tennis highlights , with the omnipresent clare balding expected to anchor the revamped evening show at this year ’s championships
john inverdale inadvertently said ' rose - c * * * * * glasses ' live on air during bbc radio 5 live 's cheltenham coverage inverdale ’s move to a possible tv commentary role at wimbledon was made before his latest high - profile gaffe — inadvertently blurting out the c - word while presenting the first day of bbc radio 5 live ’s cheltenham coverage
itv sport will closely examine his crystal - clear ‘ rose - c * * * * * glasses ’ blunder , described as a ‘ slip of the tongue ’ , before announcing their rugby world cup team , which inverdale was expected to lead
wales may be playing ireland in a pivotal six nations rugby game on saturday but coach warren gatland , his assistants rob howley and shaun edwards , and several of the players were enjoying the lavish hospitality of the jockey club , including lobster for lunch , at cheltenham yesterday
welsh stars rhys priestland and jonathan davies ( right ) were at ladies day at cheltenham on wednesday