a woman with a prosthetic leg is fighting back after a neighbor left a scathing note on her car when she complained they had parked in her reserved space
ashley brady , 26 , has had to learn how to walk again after losing her right leg in an accident last summer and during the recent snowstorm , she struggled to cross the parking lot
so her apartment complex in miamisburg , ohio created a handicapped parking spot at the bottom of the steps to her home
but on saturday , two days after the spot was designated for handicapped people only , she found another car there with no placard displayed in its window , wkef reported
shock : ashley brady , who lost her leg in an accident last year , found a threatening note beneath her windshield after she complained to a neighbor that they had parked in her disabled parking spot cruel : the note , which called her ' handicap ' , told brady to keep her hands off the person 's car so she left a note pointing out the error and warning the driver that their car would be towed if they left it there again
she was stunned when she found a note under her own windshield
' hey handicap ! first , never place your hands on my car again ! second , honey you ai n't the only one with " struggles
" you want pity go to a one leg support group ! you messed with the wrong one ! i do n't care what your note said shove it , but you touch my car again i will file a report , i am not playing ! i let the office know the cry baby one leg touches my property i will cause trouble so go cry your struggles to someone who cares cause i 'm walking away with both mine ! - b * * * *
' ' hey handicap ! ' it read
' first , you never place your hands on my car again ! second , honey you ai n't the only one with " struggles "
' the letter instructed brady to go to ' a one leg support group ' if she wanted pity and warned that the police would be contacted if brady touched her car again
' i let the office know the cry baby one leg touches my property i will cause trouble so go cry your struggles to someone who cares cause i 'm walking away with both mine ! ' the letter read
brady said she was so shocked by how rude the note was that she had to read it several times to process it
her sister then posted a picture of the note to facebook to highlight the struggles faced by people with disabilities and it has since been shared more than 1,600 times
life - changing : brady said she was relieved to get her own space because of the recent icy weather new life : brady shows her prosthetic , which has helped her walk again after losing her leg last summer on the facebook post , hundreds of people have given their support to brady , calling for the writer of the note to be reported to the police or have their car towed
brady quipped : ' she told me to cry to someone who cares , so i went to the internet and it turns out a lot of people care
' after receiving the note , brady filed a grievance with the miamisburg police and notified the management of her apartment complex
the managers said they have not yet decided on a course of action .