a liberace - obsessed politics teacher allegedly posed online as a teenage boy and dished out thousand - dollar payments in return for nude photos and selfies
cruz , who works at the the bronx high school of science in new york city , is accused of grooming at least four boys through the kik messaging app and bribing them to send the photos
cruz , 31 , has been charged with luring minors into sexual conduct as well as soliciting and possessing child pornography , and appeared in court friday
scroll down for chat logs seized by the fbi charges : cruz , who teaches in the bronx , allegedly posed online as a teenager and paid large sums of money for nude photos , ' thumbs - up selfies ' and pictures of feet from boys as young as 12 big fan : cruz 's social media presence shows him dressed repeatedly as liberace
he is pictured left in full costume , and right inside a classroom it came after an fbi found chat logs and internet records they say link cruz to four boys between the age of 12 and 15 , according to the new york post
social media profiles belonging to the teacher also show cruz dressing up repeatedly as liberace , even donning the costume around school
in some posts he referred to himself as ' cruzerace '
he allegedly posed as a rich 16 - year - old using photographs of an old the bronx high school of science student and started offering hundreds of dollars at a time for photos - and even sent some of the messages from school premises
two of the boys are said to have sent him naked photographs , while two others allegedly sent suggestive pictures showing the bodies and faces , posed according to his instructions
chat logs obtained by fbi agents , and linked to cruz , show him talking repeatedly about feet and asking the boys to play up how much of a ' popular jock ' they are
he also asks for ' thumbs - up selfies ' on more than one occasion
in exchange , he sent visa and american express gift cards worth as much as $ 1,600 , while asking his victims for the names of more boys he could pursue , according to a criminal complaint
agents investigating cruz also claim he tried repeatedly to engage in sexual conversations with the boys , some of which are too explicit to reproduce
the complaint said that one victim was a 15 - year - old boy from new mexico
it alleges that after paying him $ 900 for pictures of his feet and face , he convinced the boy to send him a cache of at least five nude pictures , posed in his bathroom , in exchange for $ 450
gift cards : cruz allegedly handed over gift cards worth thousands of dollars in total to at least four victims
he is pictured above with a waxwork of liberace work : cruz taught ap united states government & politics with economics at the bronx high school of science speaking to another 15 - year - old in the state he requested ' weird foot pictures ' and eventually paid more than $ 800 for some 40 pictures - though none involved nudity
a third boy , aged 14 , who lived in upstate new york , was also allegedly induced to send pictures
the fbi obtained some of their chat logs , which show him being asked repeatedly for pictures
though the third boy was n't asked for nude images , he was allegedly asked to recreate overtly sexual situations
messages published in the criminal complaint show cruz allegedly asking for ' really cocky shirtless mirror shots '
he was also asked to include ' stuff in your room that shows you 're a preppy , popular jock '
upon searching his east village apartment , fbi agents say they found another 20 nude pictures of a fourth boy , who they believe to be just 12 or 13 years old
according to the fbi claims , when cruz was arrested he admitted he was behind the messages and payments
he is being held in jail on a $ 1million bond
a schools spokesman said cruz , who earns more than $ 60,000 a year , has not been fired , but was removed from the class after his arrest
these messages were obtained by the fbi from a cell phone belonging to one of the victims
those labelled ' cruz ' below came from an account which the fbi linked to him via internet logs
thumbs - up selfies cruz : ' one more thumbs up selfie for now so i know you 're still excited ? i assume you 're cool doing pictures and chatting later ? ' ...
' pictures just have a huge impact on me ' cruz : can i keep asking things and asking for specific pix requests ? i just want to make sure , the pics are between us , right ? victim : [ sends photo ] sure but i still know why u [ sic ] need all these pics ? cruz : can i be honest ? that shirt sums up why you get to take my money
you know ? victim : o yah lol cruz : pictures just have a huge impact on me
seeing your feet and face and muscles and room and awards and stuff reinforce what a big deal you are
victim : yah cruz : now that you see i 'm real we can be more honest about [ redacted ] and [ redacted ] and sex and stuff ? i hope ! victim : ok cruz : i still have a lot of questions and feel like we have a lot to discuss
... ' can i see your feet again ? ' cruz : can i see your feet again and would you flex muscles in some if i owes ? and can i ask stuff ? [ victim sends photos ] cruz : soles too
and a pic of your slides please
calf muscles and arm muscles and chest / stomach / face ? what do i have to pay for for lots of pics and chatting now ? [ victim sends more photos ] cruz : wow
can you do that in front of a mirror too ? you have a six pack
victim : not in front of a mirror right now i 'm in bed
cruz : can you go to the bathroom and use one ? victim : sure what do you need a pic of ? cruz : really cocky shirtless mirror shots
maybe point it at your crotch with your finger with an ' i 'm a big deal ' face
keep taking muscles and feet and face pics
... ' i was thinking a specific act ' cruz : socks and shoes off , bare feet on the floor , shorts and underwear crumpled on the floor around the jock 's ankles
victim : sounds like sex to me
cruz : i was thinking a specific act
because feet probably would n't be on the floor for sex , though maybe
victim : [ redacted ] cruz : yeah .