the black hawk helicopter that crashed in dense fog during a training mission in florida was carrying seven marine from special operations command forces based in north carolina , and four national guard soldiers from louisiana
bad weather prevented the recovery of bodies and the flight recorder from the wreckage on thursday , and while the military had not officially released any times , loved one of those on the doomed copter did speak with the press
. now however , the names and identities of the seven marine have been revealed
he was born in fairbanks , alaska , and lived in albuquerque , new mexico , until middle - school when his family moved to holland , michigan , the marine said
andrew c. seif , 26 , grew up playing soldier in his backyard and joined the marine just weeks after graduating from high school , according to an article about his award published this week in the camp lejeune , the post newspaper
by 2012 , he had spent two years as a special forces operator with the 2nd marine , which operates from the middle east to central asia
andrew c. seif and his teammate , sgt. hansen , were closing in on one of western afghanistan 's bomb experts , according to the paper
they came under fire , and hansen was hit
andrew c. seif moved hansen to safer position and treated his teammate 's wounds
andrew c. seif returned fire , advanced alone across the compound and found the targeted bomb - maker
' the fact that ( andrew c. seif ) continued to fight through the objective to get sgt. hansen taken care of , putting himself in the line of fire , speaks volumes to who he is and demonstrates that he would never leave a marine behind , ' said maj. gen. joseph l. osterman
andrew c. seif 's wife was at his side when he received the medal
staff sgt. trevor p. blaylock , 29 , was born in lake orion , michigan , and swam on the varsity swim team
he attended henry ford community college for one year before joining the marine in 2006
initially , he was a mechanic in an armored reconnaissance battalion at camp pendleton in california
he served two tours in iraq in 2007 and 2008
his decorations include the navy and marine corps commendation medal with valor
his home near camp lejeune was within earshot of dull booming sounds of artillery or other heavy weapons
master sgt. thomas a. saunders ( left ) and staff sgt. liam flynn ( right ) born in bonn , germany , master sgt. thomas a. saunders , 33 , enlisted in the marine after graduating from high school in virginia
following basic training in 1999 , he was assigned to camp lejeune
he deployed to kosovo and served with special operations teams in iraq and afghanistan before years before joining a marine special operations unit in 2010
he spent eight months as a liaison to army before joining his middle east - focused regiment four years ago
he was married to a fellow marine based at camp lejeune , and the couple has one son , according to an award by the marine corps association & foundation naming thomas a. saunders its special forces operator of 2014
born in reading , england , staff sgt. liam flynn , 33 , moved to queens , new york in 2002
he enlisted in the marine in 2006
after boot camp , he was assigned to camp lejeune
he served tours of duty in iraq and afghanistan before joining the marine ' special operations force in 2011 and returning to afghanistan in 2012
liam flynn 's heroism was honored by receiving three navy and marine corps achievement medals with valor and the bronze star with valor
capt. stanford henry shaw iii ( left ) and staff sgt. marcus s. bawol ( right ) capt. stanford henry shaw iii , 31 , was from basking ridge , new jersey , and attended ridge high school , where he was student government president and captain of the varsity lacrosse team
he attended the united states naval academy and became a commissioned marine officer upon graduation in 2006
he graduated from the infantry officer course and was assigned to the 1st battalion , 7th marine
he served two tours of duty in iraq in 2007 and 2009 , according to information provided by the marine at camp lejeune
his career took him to japan , where he became the deputy camp commander of a jungle warfare training center on okinawa in 2011
he graduated from the malaysian army 's jungle warfare course and then joined the marine special forces
staff sgt. marcus s. bawol of warren , michigan , " loved everything about the military , " said his sister , peek
' he could n't wait to join
he wanted to fight for our country and was always striving to be the best marine he could be , ' peek said
the 27 - year - old graduated in 2006 from warren mott high school
marcus s. bawol played baseball and football and was a member of the school 's swim team , according to district superintendent robert livernois
marcus s. bawol attended olivet college for a year , where he was a catcher on the baseball team
he had planned to marry his fiancée in october , peek said
on thursday , warren mayor jim fouts ordered flags in the city , just north of detroit , flown at half - staff
staff sgt. kerry michael kemp ( above ) , 27 , was the proud father of a baby just shy of her first birthday debris : pentagon officials say the 11 on board are presumed and that the mission is now one of search and recover staff sgt. kerry michael kemp , 27 , was the proud father of a baby just shy of her first birthday and loved horsing around with his nephews
' he would wrestle with them
he really got into that , the wrestling and playing
he 'd carry them around on his back , ' said his sister - in - law , lora waraksa
he was a " proud marine , a loving husband and most wonderful father , " she said
he also loved golfing and the ocean — he often took his nephews out to hunt for sea shells
born in memphis , tennessee , kerry michael kemp met his wife , jenna , at port washington high school in wisconsin , where he was voted " best smile " by his senior class
he started as an artillery mechanic , and his military merit led to three quick promotions
he completed training in special operations in 2012 and spent seven months in afghanistan before returning in june
meanwhile , divers have found the wreckage of the military helicopter in just 25 feet of water
a small memorial stands in the sand along highway 98 in navarre , florida ' it was certainly a high - impact crash , ' said eglin air force base fire chief mark giuliano , and ' very , very , very dense fog ' was complicating the response
there 's almost no visibility at the spot where the wreckage was found , forcing search crews to move slowly to avoid colliding with each other , and the surf is too rough still to pull the wreckage to the surface
dozens of airmen walked the shores of santa rosa sound thursday , recovering pieces of clothing and bits of wreckage , but the u.s. coast guard suspended its search thursday afternoon , and will instead focus on helping the army recover the remaining fuselage and debris , it said
president barack obama has promised a thorough investigation into the cause , which is being led by the u.s. army combat readiness center out of fort rucker , alabama
the helicopter went down tuesday night in fog so thick that another helicopter turned back
american flags stand in the median near the bridge entrance to navarre beach , florida a woman at campground nearby , kim urr , said she heard a metallic sound and then two muffled explosions as it disappeared into the narrow waterway separating santa rosa island from the florida panhandle mainland
this dense sea fog , which could persist through friday , is common when warm southern air meets cold water this time of year , said jack cullen , a national weather service meteorologist in mobile , alabama
the same fog enveloped a large gathering holding a vigil on a pier wednesday night
crashing gulf waves created a somber backdrop to the songs , tears and prayers of the people , who have strong ties to the military and the sprawling eglin air force base
' my heart is really hurt right now knowing these people were here just on training - knowing they went and left their family members and did not give that goodbye , you know , because they were n't going off to war , ' said a tearful dolly edwards , herself the wife of a marine .