it 's hot or not time again as ian ladyman reveals what 's been making him feel warm this week and what 's been leaving him cold inside
take a good look at a couple of stars at the world cup , the best band from leicester since showaddywaddy and a tricky red devil
and peek through your hands at poults in the pond
what 's hot big hitters while england 's best cricketers have been riding open - top buses , the rest of the world has reinvented the game
watching batsmen like brendon mccullum and ab de villiers during this world cup has been invigorating and depressing at the same time
ab de villiers has been having a fair old hit during south africa 's world cup campaign and brendon mccullum has n't exactly been holding back for new zealand dugout honesty john carver may not last long at newcastle so let 's enjoy him
fan on wednesday : ' obertan is rubbish
why do n't you b * * * * ck him ? '
john carver : ' i have bloody b * * * * cked him ! ! ! '
obertan – standing 10 yards away – chose not to contribute
john carver found it hard to get the best out of obertan against manchester united obertan did n't cover himself in glory against his former club and invited a b * * * * cking from his boss the anfield play list thanks to 40 years of dedication from match announcer george sephton , liverpool have long since played the best pre-match music and now he chooses tunes with hidden messages
rather more obvious , though , is his current fondness for the kasabian hit : ' stevie '
is there another stevie at anfield apart from captain and kop idol gerrard ? the unexpected what is sport if not a platform for genius ? even if you do n't care for rugby league , i urge you to check out this piece of magic from salford 's rangi chase against hull fc last weekend
what 's not ian poulter european golf fans will cherish padraig harrington 's uplifting win at the honda classic but a final - round score of level par should n't have been enough
sadly , ian poulter 's remarkable collapse – he found water five times in 10 holes – let padraig harrington past and his search for only his second us stroke - play victory continues
ian poulter was n't a big fan of the fairways during the final round of the honda classic at pga national david saker england 's bowling coach has a fine reputation but what has he been doing these last few years ? last winter 's ashes tour saw three of his charges virtually unselectable while it is pertinent to ask which – if any – of our bowlers have actually improved in recent times
david saker ( centre ) , with james anderson ( right ) and chris woakes ... so how 's that all going , then ? david bentley david bentley quit football at the age of 29 after falling out of love with the game
now he is trying his hand at gaelic football , an experiment you can watch on reality tv
david bentley had a real talent for football sadly not matched by his ability to make the right choices
david bentley fell out of love with football ... and into a nice stripy strip for a bit of the gaelic game west ham fans they 've been trying for months and it looks like they may finally get their man
so , for them , a warning
clubs only tend to head one way after sam allardyce leaves
it 's to be hoped the olympic stadium does n't become the best ground in the championship
will sam allardyce be prowling the technical area at the olympic stadium ?