a direct telephone line between cuba and the u.s. has been re-established for the first time in 15 years
u.s. calls to cuba have typically been put through by companies in other countries like italy and spain
but now an agreement has been signed that allows u.s. and cuba to make direct phone calls
etecsa , cuba 's state telecommunications company , said the change would make calls easier and more affordable
president obama , pictured at the national league of cities congressional city conference , declared the end of u.s. 's ' outdated approach ' to cuba
a direct telephone line between the two countries has been re-established for the first time in 15 years ' it contributes to providing better infrastructure and better communications quality between the people and our two countries , ' it said
the move marks a historic shift in u.s. policy , which aims to bring an end to half a century of cold war tensions
the lines were originally cut after u.s. phone companies refused to pay a 10 per cent tax on calls between the two countries
but president obama declared the end of u.s. 's ' outdated approach ' to cuba in december , announcing the re-establishment of diplomatic relations as well as economic and travel ties with the communist island
at the time he said : ' isolation has not worked
it 's time for a new approach
' we will end an outdated approach that , for decades , has failed to advance our interests
' around two million cuba - u.s. are thought to live in the u.s. and many families rely on phone calls to stay in touch
bill pereira , ceo of etecsa , said : ' we hope that this is the beginning of something , of a relationship that will allow us to build and grow and facilitate and ease communication between family members and loved ones
' havana residents use public phones to make calls in december 2000
the cuba government cut off direct telephone service from the u.s. to cuba , although cuba could still call the u.s. residents are hoping that the step forward will lead to other services becoming available
less than a quarter of cuba , whose average wage is $ 20 per month , currently have any type of internet service
virtually all home connections remain illegal and getting online at government centres is very expensive , as they charge between $ 2.50 and $ 4.50 an hour
obama set connectivity as a priority in the u.s. ' new relationship with cuba , making telecommunications equipment , technology and services among its first priorities .