it 's only logical that alley has been called out by star trek fans for paying tribute to the wrong benjamin spock
the actress raised the heckles of trekkies sunday when she wrote a tribute on twitter seemingly honoring a real - life celebrity child psychologist instead of the fictional science officer of uss enterprise portrayed by the late actor nimoy
' rest in peace benjamin spock ... xxxooo , ' alley wrote in a message accompanying a black - and - white still photograph of nimoy as the half - vulcan first officer under the command of captain james t. kirk
alley was later replaced in the role by the actress robin curtis
the 64 - year - old tv and film actress unwittingly eulogized dr benjamin spock , a famed pediatric psychoanalyst and the author of the mega best - seller baby and child care who passed away in 1998 at age 94
fans of the successful science fiction franchise star trek wasted no time pointing out alley ’s mistake
co-stars : alley ( left ) played the saavik in star trek : the wrath of khan alongside nimoy as benjamin spock ( right ) brief sci - fi career : alley ( left andf right ) was later replaced in the role by the actress robin curtis team enterprise : nimoy ( far right ) portrayed the half - vulcan , half - human science officer benjamin spock for 47 years
this file photo shows the cast of star trek : the wrath of khan , including william shatner as captain james t. kirk ( center ) and alley as saavik ( second right ) ' that 's * mr. * benjamin spock
dr. benjamin spock was the baby expert , ' user eric fettmann reminded the look who 's talking star
another star trek fan julie smith wrote : ' rofl dr. benjamin spock gave our parents advice about how to take care of us ! ' but others have come to alley 's defense , insisting that the actress ' slip - up was just an innocent mistake
alley , who was out of the country when nimoy passed away friday at age 83 , defiantly responded to the flurry of tweets about her gaffe about an hour later
outspoken : alley , 64 , has defended her tweet in a follow - up message , insisting that honorary titles notwithstanding , the sentiment was the same live long and prosper : nimoy passed away friday after a long battle with lung disease
' i 'm sure mr. benjamin spock had phd 's in science ... anyway the sentiment is the same
. jeez ... hard to make gestures on here without star trek police
. rip , ' she retorted
nimoy , who played mr benjamin spock for 47 years , was laid to rest sunday in los angeles following an intimate ceremony attended by family and close friends .