need some help and inspiration deciding who to back at cheltenham ? sportsmail 's peter scudamore and marcus townend reveal their favourites while sky sports news hq presenter alex hammond and other celebrities have also shared their tips for the festival
peter scudamore eight - time champion jockey and rider of 13 festival winners douvan ( supreme novices ’ hurdle , 1.30 ) rated one of the best horses irish trainer willie mullins has brought to the meeting , which is saying something
having beaten some very decent opposition without coming off the bridle , it is impossible to truly measure his merit but the vibes are strong and he should be able to successfully start what could be an amazing afternoon for willie mullins and his stable jockey walsh
l’ami serge looks best of the british but that might not be good enough
best odds : 13 - 8 douvan , pictured at the gallops , is rated one of the best horses willie mullins has brought to the meeting un de sceaux ( arkle challenge trophy , 2.05 ) another willie mullins - trained hot - pot. fell when clear on his steeplechasing debut but has since pulverised some good performers including tuesday ’s rival clarcam by 15 lengths in january
some fear his temperament might get the better of him given the atmosphere but he was far more tractable for walsh on that last run
best odds : 8 - 13 the new one ( champion hurdle , 3.20 ) my pick to derail the willie mullins bandwagon by beating hot favourite faugheen and his two - time champion stablemate hurricane fly
some say the gelding trained by nigel twiston-davies and ridden by his son sam was n’t as unlucky as he looked last year when almost brought down at the third hurdle and his failure to keep up on the run to the home turn was crucial
but that ignores how significant a loss of momentum and rhythm can be in a top - quality race
best odds : 7 - 2 annie power ( olbg mares ’ hurdle , 4.00 ) willie mullins has won this race with quevega for the last six years and this mare , whose only career defeat came in last year ’s world hurdle , could be even better
kept off the track all season by injury but only needs to be near her best to beat a field of inferior rivals
best odds : 8 - 13 the new one is peter scudamore 's tip to beat favourite faugheen and hurricane fly marcus townend seedling ( supreme novices ’ hurdle , 1.30 ) fair form last season but really flourished this term winning all three races
that includes giving weight and a length - and - a - half beating to tuesday ’s rival some plan at cheltenham in december
the run looks even better when you factor in his bad jumping error at the fourth flight
trainer warren greatrex has his string back in good form after quiet spell
best odds : 20 - 1 sgt reckless ( arkle challenge trophy , 2.05 ) lacks experience , racing over fences only once when winning at uttoxeter in october having been kept away from the worst of the winter ground
winning a flat race on the all - weather is unconventional preparation but mick channon ’s gelding was a fast finishing fourth in last year ’s supreme novices ’ hurdle and has frame claims if he can pounce off a strong pace set by favourite un de sceaux
best odds : 16 - 1 l’unique ( olbg mares ’ hurdle , 4.00 ) annie power is the red - hot favourite for the race but alan king ’s l’unique looks a great each - way option
she is a grade one winner who peaks in the spring and was third in this race last year
she also has a decent weight pull for her course defeat by polly peachum
best odds : 16 - 1 sgt reckless was a fast finishing fourth in last year 's supreme novices ' hurdle sky sports news hq ' alex hammond is backing the new one and the celebs ... here 's who the celebs are backing in the champion hurdle
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
sir peter o’sullevan-legendary racing commentator jezki faugheen might be anything but at the prices , last year ’s winner looks the each - way bet
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
james simpson-daniel-former rugby union star turned bookmaker faugheen i have been a fan all season and those who say he has beaten nothing are wrong
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... hayley turner - professional jockey faugheen willie mullins ’ star gelding is one of my strongest fancies for the whole of the festival week
alex hammond - sky sports news hq presenter the new one unlucky in this race last year and i prefer to back a proven hurdler rather than one with potential
he should have a better race this time round
iwan thomas-former 400m athlete and tv presenter faugheen the popular choice but i hope he can live up to the nickname ‘ faugheen the machine ’ .