former u.s. sen. john danforth denounced the ugly nature of u.s. politics tuesday while eulogizing missouri auditor schweich , suggesting that political bullying and an anti-semitic whisper campaign led his friend to kill himself
john danforth expressed ' overwhelming anger that politics has gone so hideously wrong ' as he spoke at a memorial services that drew many of missouri 's top elected officials and hundreds of others to the episcopal that schweich had attended in suburban st. louis
words can kill , ' john danforth said
' that has been proven right here in this state
' schweich , 54 , fatally shot himself last thursday in what police say was an apparent suicide at his home in clayton
he left behind a wife , two children and an apparently rising political career
missouri 's top elected officials and hundreds of others gathered tuesday at the church of st michael and st. george in clayton for the memorial services of state auditor schweich former u.s. senator john danforth ( left ) delivered the euology at the service , and said campaign bullying was to blame for schweich 's ( right ) suicide
schweich was running for governor at the time of his death he had launched a campaign for the gop nomination for governor just a month before his death and was already locked in a contentious primary with hanaway , a former missouri house speaker and u.s. attorney
john danforth , who is an ordained episcopal priest , served 18 years as a gop senator before retiring in 1995 and remains one of the more respected elder statesmen of missouri politics
john danforth said he had talked with schweich two days before his death
he said schweich was upset about a radio ad from a political action committee that mocked his physical appearance and suggested he was a pawn of democrats who would ' quickly squash him like the little bug that he is ' in a general election
st. louis mayor francis slay stands at the rear , right , of an overflowing church of st. michael and st. george in clayton , missouri , on tuesday , march 3 , 2015 , for the funeral for missouri state auditor schweich , who fatally shot himself last thursday in what police say was an apparent suicide at his home in clayton
( ap photo / st. louis post-dispatch , robert cohen , pool ) former sen. john danforth leaves the church of st. michael and st. george in clayton , missouri , after delivering the eulogy at the funeral for schweich
even though schweich was an ordained episcopal priest , he was allegedly mocked for his jewish ancestry during the race missouri lt. gov. peter kinder leaves church on tuesday , march 3 , 2015 , after attending schweich 's funeral former u.s. sen. christopher ' kit ' bond also attended the tuesday services for schweich but john danforth said schweich was particularly distraught by what he perceived to be an anti-semitic whispering campaign by the chairman of the republican party , who schweich said had been telling people that schweich was jewish
schweich was christian , but had some jewish ancestry and had said his grandfather had long - encouraged him to stand up to anti-semitism
the party chairman , hancock , has denied making anti-semitic remarks , though he has acknowledged he mistakenly believed schweich was jewish and may have mentioned it in an off - hand way to some people
hancock did n't attend the memorial service and declined to comment about john danforth 's remarks
' today is not an appropriate time to engage in political back - and - forth , ' state gop executive director jonathon prouty said on hancock 's behalf
schweich 's former spokesman , spence jackson , said after the service that hancock ' should resign immediately ' as republican party chairman and that hanaway should ' do some serious soul - searching about the race she 's run so far and the people she 's associated with
' hanaway did not attend the funeral and a spokesman for her said she will not have any comment
emergency services were called to schweich 's home ( pictured ) at 9:48am on thursday morning , seven minutes after he left a voicemail with st. louis today reporter tony messenger john danforth recited a passage from the gospel of matthew in which jesus describes as blessed those ' who are persecuted for righteousness sake ' and against whom others ' utter all kinds of evil against you on my behalf
' he said schweich was a ' model public servant ' who ' was a person easily hurt and quickly offended ' — so much so that john danforth said he had tried to discourage schweich from entering politics six years ago because he did n't believe schweich had the temperament for it
john danforth said he is haunted by the fact that he had advised schweich not to personally go public last week with the allegations of the anti-semitic whispering campaign and had suggested schweich should have someone else supply that information to the media
' he may have thought that i had abandoned him — left him on the high ground all alone , ' john danforth said
on the morning of his death , schweich had invited reporters for ap and the st. louis post-dispatch to his home for an afternoon interview , saying he was ready to go public with the allegations about the anti-semitic campaign
he shot himself about 13 minutes after talking to the ap reporter over the phone
' the death of schweich is the natural consequence of what politics has become , ' john danforth said
' it is now our duty — yours and mine — to turn politics into something much better than it 's now so miserable state
' schweich 's coffin , draped in a missouri flag , was placed at the front of the sanctuary , with his family seated on one side and gov. jay nixon and other top officials seated on the other
the pews were packed and hundreds of people stood along the side isles
schweich was first elected in 2010 and had easily won election to a second , four - year term in november
he previously served as john danforth 's chief of staff for a 1999 federal investigation into the deadly government siege at the branch davidian compound in waco , texas , and followed john danforth to the united nations , where he was chief of staff for the u.s. delegation
president george w. bush appointed schweich to the state department in 2005 as an international law enforcement official and picked schweich two years later to coordinate the anti-drug and justice reform efforts in afghanistan
for confidential help , call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1 - 800 - 273 - 8255 or click here for confidential support on suicide matters in the uk , call the samaritans on 08457 90 90 90 , visit a local samaritans branch or click here