flag - waving supporters of the u.s. flooded the streets of prague today to cheer on a highly visible display of u.s. military might rolling through eastern europe
dozens of stars and stripes flags , as well as symbols of the nato military alliance , thronged the capital of the czech republic as u.s. soldiers were given a warm welcome by the locals
armored carriers , including stryker multi-purpose fighting vehicles , rolled down the highways before coming to a temporary stop in the city 's historic streets as part of an overt show of strength to russian president putin
it will finish in germany are you watching , vlad ? the u.s. army 's stryker armored assault vehicles , above , were supported by air force fighter jets and u.s. army attack choppers for parts of the route the armored column is headed to an army base in vilseck , germany , in a journey spanning more than 1,000 miles
the troops are travelling through nato member states , including the czech republic , in the wake of fears over russian military intervention in the region
they were given similarly enthusiastic receptions in other european cities
states in the baltic states feel at particular risk as they share a border with russian
the convoy , part of a mission dubbed atlantic resolve , is designed to reassure members and demonstrate that nato is prepared to defend its member states
ukraine , which had its crimea territory annexed by russian last year , and claims military intervention is ongoing , applied to join nato in 2008 , but the process was never completed
under the rules of the alliance , any attack on a member state is regarded as an attack on all of them , a tenet credited with checking soviet expansion during the cold war
happy to see them : czech republic locals were pleased to see an u.s. military presence as fears continue over russian 's military action in the region bringing the sunshine : the overt military operation is designed to reassure eastern europe that the u.s. is ready to act shaking hands : a czech republic man approached an u.s. army reconnaissance vehicle to greet a soldier in person big guns : the u.s. has rolled its heavy arms more than a thousand miles from estonia , with an eventual destination of germany the dragoon ride convoy began in three separate branches ; one in talinn , estonia , one in vilnius , linthuania and one in drawsko pomorskie , poland
they converged in prague and will continue along a single route to germany , where the u.s. army has a base
the convoy has in parts received air support from u.s. air force jet planes and u.s. army attack helicopters
supporters of russian had threatened to disrupt - or even halt - the convoy , but local reports say that agitators were far outnumbered by supporters and that no untoward incidents took place
an army spokesman said : ' dragoon ride is a complex mission involving a significant amount of international diplomatic and military cooperation
' it will allow all units involved an opportunity to exercise key command and control systems across all levels of command , test their unit leadership and maintenance capabilities , while simultaneously providing a highly - visible demonstration of u.s. commitment to its nato allies and demonstrating nato ’s ability to move military forces freely across allied borders in close cooperation
' lining the streets : crowds are pictured above earlier in the mission , waving in support from the czech republic border waving : soldiers in heavy camo waved to the crowds on their long journey ' stay with us ! ' : the message from these czech republic supporters was unambiguous amid fears over putin 's russian air support : u.s. army helicopters hovered overhead parts of the march , pictured above in drawsko pomorskie , poland local flavor : an u.s. soldier hands a beer to a colleague as they pause in prague on their long journey