ryan seager has won the inaugural barclays after impressing for southampton in february
the 19 - year - old made his debut for the senior team last month against swansea , as well as scoring one and making one assist for the youth side , and has been chosen ahead of all the players in division 1 and 2 ( 24 teams ) based on his performance statistics
ryan seager also recently netted a hat - trick against derby county in the under 21 premier league cup , and is looking to follow in the footsteps of adam lallana , luke shaw and james ward-prowse in making the step up on the south coast
sportsmail held an exclusive q&a with ryan seager after he found out about his award
southampton youngster ryan seager has been chosen as the inaugural barclays u21 player of the month what 's your style of play ? a poacher , getting in around the box , it 's where i score most of my goals
who do you model your game on ? michael owen in his early days , and obviously with southampton it 's matt le tissier
he was my biggest inspiration from early on as a southampton fan
have you worked with the first team ? in the last few months and when i made my debut i was training with them quite a lot , they 've got near enough a whole first - team squad fit now so it 's getting harder but i still train with them every now and again
it 's a good experience
young striker ryan seager says he models his game on matt le tissier ( left ) as a southampton fan and michael owen do you speak to ronald koeman often ? he gives me advice in training , as do shane long and graziano pelle , with my shooting and movement
what do you do to relax away from football ? hobbies ? i 'd love to say golf but i 'm not very good at it ! i just relax really , i like all sports but do n't play too many
last album you listened to ? probably the wanted , someone like that
last film you watched ? fury
i loved it - i love war films
another youngster you 'd tip to make it at southampton ? jake hesketh
made his debut for the first team in december , we 're a good combination on fifa ! i 've got a career mode on the game with southampton at the moment , only in my first season so do n't know if i get any good yet
i bring myself off the bench though ... the 19 - year - old fights for the ball with chelsea midfielder isaiah brown during a youth game ryan seager says the best youth player he has ever played against is united 's adnan januzaj best young player you 've played against ? adnan januzaj in under 18 's
we played them away from home and he was just tearing it up
it was before he made his united debut , but i knew he would make it
what would you be doing now if you were n't a footballer ? i think about that all the time
i 've always thought it would be nice to work in a supermarket
do n't ask me why
i 've always found it interesting
best advice you 've been given ? rickie lambert , last season when i trained with him , told me i do n't always have to shoot with power , to finesse it more often , and since then i 've scored most of my goals from that
i look back to that advice
any advice for young players ? work hard
if you keep working , you never know ! ryan seager says he might fancy working in a supermarket if he was n't a footballer at southampton the award has been established to recognise the next generation of players coming through , coinciding with barclays ' own work to encourage the next generation of fans , which will see thousands of tickets and unique football experiences given away via the barclays spirit of the game website
a winner will be selected every month for the rest of the season , as well as the barclays under 21 premier league player of the season being unveiled in may .