a mother is being investigated after she left her three sons in a car while she went to the library
the unnamed woman was trying to finish some financial paperwork in monroe , louisiana , on monday afternoon when her eldest son called 911 and said his mom was being ' mean '
when the dispatcher asked the boy where he was calling from he promptly told her it was a library but could not remember the name
a mother is being investigated after she left her three sons in a car while she went to a library in monroe , louisiana
she was caught when her eldest son , six , called 911 ( stock image above ) monroe police found the boys - aged two , four and six - after a woman also called the emergency services
officers escorted them back to their mother , cbs detroit reported
the 25 - year - old said she had initially taken her sons into the dorsch memorial library but had to remove them after they became disruptive
detective john wall , of monroe police department , said the boys had been left in the car for around 12 minutes
he added that the windows were open and the doors left unlocked
dispatcher : hello ? boy : hello ? dispatcher : hello , this is 911 , can i help you ? boy : uh huh
dispatcher : what 's going on ? boy : my mom is being mean to us
dispatcher : where are you at ? what is the address ? boy : at the library
dispatcher : at the library ? boy : yeah
dispatcher : what library are you at ? boy : it 's spelled with a d. dispatcher : do you know what street it 's on ? boy : east ... east ... dispatcher : how old are you ? boy : six
the 25 - year - old mother said she had initially taken her sons into the dorsch memorial library ( above ) but had to remove them after they became disruptive he said : ' mom escorted all three children out to the vehicle , left them in the vehicle and then returned back to the library and continued her work on the computer
' the child protective services has been made aware of the incident and could bring forward unattended child or child abuse charges
temperatures at the time were around 30 degrees .