police are seeking an attempted murder charge against the crazed activist they say slashed the u.s. ambassador to south korea while screaming demands for north korea reunification
the attack thursday on lippert , which prompted rival north korea to gloat about ' knife slashes of justice , ' left deep gashes and damaged tendons and nerves
it also raised questions about security in a city normally seen as ultra-safe , despite regular threats of war from pyongyang
while an extreme example , the attack is the latest act of political violence in a deeply divided country where some protesters portray their causes as matters of life and death
doctors will remove the 80 stiches on lippert 's face on monday or tuesday and expect him to be out of the hospital by tuesday or wednesday
hospital officials say he may experience sensory problems in his left hand for several months
police , meanwhile , searched the offices of the suspect , kim for documents and computer files as they investigated how the attack was planned and whether others were involved dumbfounded : kim was arrested in the immediate aftermath of the attack on lippert on thursday morning , which left the ambassador covered in blood in custody : the 55 - year - old kim reportedly yelled ' north korea and south korea should be unified ' before he attacked ambassador lippert at the breakfast meeting
seen above being taken into custody on thursday journalists question kim , who was brought out in a wheelchair , as he left the police station for a court in seoul earlier today they want to charge kim with attempted murder , violence against a foreign envoy and business obstruction , and have requested a formal detention warrant
a further charge of violating south korea 's national security law , which bans south korea from publicly sympathising with the north korea government , was being considered
but the 55 - year - old has denied that he intended to kill lippert
as part of their investigation they have also requested kim 's past travels to north korea — seven times between 1999 and 2007 — during a previous era of inter-korean cooperation , when seoul was ruled by a liberal government
kim attempted to build a memorial altar for former north korea leader kim jong il after his death in december 2011 , police said
protest : south korea officials responded swiftly in response to the attacks , beefing up security outside the u.s. embassy and promising justice
above , a group of south korea protesters burn north korea flags in seoul during a rally denouncing the attack on thursday pro-american : while south korea is one of u.s. 's strongest allies in asian , there are factions of the country that are against the strong u.s. military presence
above , more u.s. - south korea alliance supporters pictured above on thursday against the north : south korea protesters shout slogans as they hold the photos of north korea leader kim jong un , center and right , the late leaders kim jong il , second from left , and kim il sung , left , during a rally denouncing the attack on the u.s. ambassador on thursday kim , who has a long history of anti- u.s. protests , said he acted alone in the attack on lippert
he told police it was meant as a protest of annual u.s. - south korea military drills that started monday — exercises that the north and south korea has long maintained are preparations for an invasion
kim said the drills , which seoul and washington say are purely defensive , ruined efforts for reconciliation between the koreas , according to police officials
while most south korea look at the u.s. presence favorably , u.s. infuriates some leftists because of its role in south korea 's turbulent modern history
washington , which backed the south korea during the 1950 - 53 korean war against the communist north and south korea , still stations 28,500 troops here , and anti- u.s. activists see the annual military drills with seoul as a major obstacle to their goal of a unified south korea
' south korea and north korea should be reunified , ' kim shouted as he slashed lippert with a 10 - inch knife , police and witnesses said
right before : lippert pictured above , seated at the breakfast table just prior to being attacked by kim thursday morning stained : police say the ambassador was at his table and about to make a speech when kim pushed him from behind and then started slashing him with a knife
above , investigators survey the blood - spattered table on thursday taken by surprise : injured ambassador lippert is seen leaving the performing arts center where he was slashed by kim thursday morning stitched up : south korea police stand guard outside gangbuk samsung hospital where ambassador lippert was taken after the attack on thursday
doctors say he needed 80 stitches for the wound on his face south korea protection : south korea police patrol outside the u.s. embassy in seoul on march 5
the protection of foreign dignitaries and embassies is customarily the responsibility of the host country kim is well - known among police and activists as one of a hard - core group of protesters willing to use violence to highlight their causes
police did n't consider the possibility that kim , who has ties to the korean council for reconciliation and cooperation , which hosted the breakfast meeting where lippert was attacked , would show up for the event , according to a seoul police official who did n't want to be named , citing office rules
u.s. ambassadors have security details , but their size largely depends on the threat level of the post
seoul is not considered to be a particularly high threat post despite its proximity to the north korea border
it 's not clear how many guards lippert had , but they would have been fewer than the ambassadors in most of the mideast
outspoken : kim reportedly has a history of public outbursts
pictured above in an undated file photo from a prior protest seoul 's foreign ministry said it was the first time a foreign ambassador stationed in modern south korea had been injured in a violent attack
however , the japanese ambassador narrowly escaped injury in 2010 when kim threw a piece of concrete at him , according to police
kim , who was protesting japanese 's claim to small disputed islands that are occupied by south korea , hit the ambassador 's secretary instead , media reports said , and was sentenced to a three - year suspended prison term over the attack
the website of the woorimadang activist group that kim heads describes the group 's long history of anti- u.s. protests
photos show him and other activists rallying last week in front of the u.s. embassy in seoul to protest the u.s. - south korea military drills , which are to run until the end of april
north korea 's state - controlled media crowed thursday that kim 's ' knife slashes of justice ' were ' a deserved punishment on war maniac u.s. ' and reflected the south korea people 's protests against the u.s. for driving the korean peninsula to the brink of war because of the joint military drills
u.s. secretary of state john kerry , in saudi arabia for meetings with regional leaders , said the u.s. ' will never be intimidated or deterred by threats or by anybody who harms any u.s. diplomats
' activists in seoul , meanwhile , expressed worries that the attack on lippert would harm the public image of peaceful protesters , or prompt the conservative government to suppress their activities
small to medium - sized demonstrations regularly occur across seoul , and most are peaceful
but scuffles with police do break out occasionally , and the burning of effigies of north korea and japanese leaders is also common
some demonstrators have also severed their own fingers , thrown bodily fluids at embassies and tried to self - immolate
lippert became ambassador last october and has been a regular presence on social media and in speeches and presentations during his time in seoul
he 's regularly seen walking his basset hound , grigsby , near his residence , not far from where the attack happened
his wife gave birth here and the couple gave their son a north korea middle name
while south korea is one of the u.s. 's closest asian allies , u.s. has been partially blamed for the severing of south korea into two countries
in 1910 , the japanese empire took control of unified south korea which they ruled as a colony through the end of world war ii. when the empire fell in 1945 , it was decided in a united nations agreement that south korea be split in half at the 38th parallel
the u.s. established a trusteeship in the south while the soviet took over in the north , leading to the creation in 1948 of two separate countries
above , u.s. troops board a boat bound for south korea at the onset of the korean war in 1950 however , both sides thought the situation was temporary that that their respective country would ultimately become the sole head of unified south korea
cold war tensions between the u.s. and soviet only fueled these ambitions , and in 1950 the north korea army invaded the south backed by chinese and soviet soldiers
while the south korea nearly lost the war in just the first few months of battle , the u.s. helped booster their forces and retake their land
the fighting was disasterous for both countries , which eventually agreed to an armistance in july 1953
since the korean war is technically ongoing , the u.s. keeps troops in south korea at the ready
however , the strong u.s. military presence in south korea has led to negative sentiments from some citizens who oppose reliance on the west
still , south korea remains one of the most pro-american populations in the world
according to a 2013 poll , 77 per cent of south korea surveyed said they approved of president obama 's leadership - compared to just 45 per cent of u.s. at the same time .