the burned metal and mangled electronics in these images could belong to the first u.s. aircraft to go down in syrian since the u.s. began airstrikes on isis inside the country
u.s. officials said military controllers lost contact with the mq-1 at around 9.40am gmt yesterday over north - west syrian
syrian state media claimed the country 's air defence units shot down a u.s. surveillance aircraft in the same area
pictures from the alleged crash site show men in military gear posing with the wreckage , a building severely damaged by a possible falling part and electronic hardware belonging to the company that makes the mq-1
two charred panels recovered from the crash bear the logo of general atomics aeronautical systems inc - the company who produce the mq-1 drone
the company is a leading manufacturer of both unmanned aircraft , military radars and surveillance systems
speaking anonymously , the u.s. official would not say whether it was shot down deliberately but the pentagon is trying to determine why operators lost control of the drone
but syrian 's sana news agency claimed that ' syrian air defences brought down a hostile u.s. surveillance plane in northern latakia , ' without giving further details
state television broadcast footage of the wreckage and men in military fatigues could be seen loading the debris - which included wheels and electronics - into the back of a truck
if confirmed , it would be the first u.s. aircraft to crash in syrian territory since it expanded the aerial campaign against islamic sate in the country back in september
u.s. officials have previously described syrian skies as relatively passive - noting the syrian government has not taken aim at coalition aircraft flying over its territory
defence : however syrian state media claimed the drone was perceived as ' hostile ' but the country 's defence units who shot it down looting : state television broadcast footage of the wreckage and men in military fatigues could be seen loading the debris into the back of a truck hardware : the company who makes the mq-1 , which is believed to have crashed in latakia , is a leading manufacturer of both unmanned aircrafts , military radars and surveillance systems new threat : u.s. officials have previously described syrian skies as relatively passive and said the syrian regime does not target coalition aircraft taken apart : men in both civilian and military clothing were pictured next to what is believed to be the crashed u.s. drone in latakia , north - west syrian