warne 's interview with the victorious australian cricket players about their post-match celebrations has sparked a torrent of social media comment
the former cricket world cup winning bowler asked several members of the triumphant australian team if they were planning to go drinking to celebrate the win
how long is that going to last
just one night , two nights ? go and enjoy yourselves guys
hopefully we 'll join you for a few
' the response on twitter was rapid
iohyouforever said : ' warne currently sounds thirstier than james franco in 127 hours
' another user suggested warne was trying to get an invite for a night out
abc journalist lucy carter said : ' i feel like warne is desperately trying to get invited to drinks but every player he 's interviewing is n't having a bar of it
' iohyouforever said : ' warne currently sounds thirstier than james franco in 127 hours
' all melanie homer was ' blah blah blah drink ' brodie kane joked about warne 's love of the mobile dating app tinder celebrations got underway immediately after australia smashed its way to a seven - wicket victory against new zealand in the icc world cup final in melbourne
more than 93,000 fans packed the iconic mcg to watch as clarke capped off his stellar one - day career with a commanding final innings of 74 runs that helped secured australia its fifth title
australian stars such as steve smith – who scored the winning run with 17 overs to spare - and david warner soaked up the atmosphere after their success and celebrated with the record crowd
the dejected new zealand team was forced to watch on , after coming so close to giving its country a first cricket world cup crown
adam peacock compared warne to a simpsons character australia 's warne celebrates with champagne after australia beat england in the fourth cricket test at headlingley , leeds , england , july 28 , 1997 lucy carter thought it sounded like warne was trying to get himself an invite a cricket fan admired the way warne asked the tough questions after the match warne eventually got his wish - getting a photo of himself with clarke , a drink and the gold cup at 3am
' congrats buddy , so happy for you ! ! ! ! # thirsty hahahah , ' he wrote on instragram australian head coach darren lehmann poses with the trophy and a beer as he celebrates brad haddin of australia pours a vb beer over the trophy after winning the celebrations moved into the mcg change rooms , where players posed with family members and loved ones
after the win , clarke said he was thrilled with the success
' i 'm over the moon , ' clarke said
' to all the fans , it 's been an amazing turnout throughout the tournament
' i could n't have asked for anything more since coming back to the team
they way we 've played , we deserve to be standing here
' it 's been an honour and a privilege to represent my country
tonight has been extra special
' at 3am warne posted a photo of himself and clarke holding the gold cup with the caption : ' congrats buddy , so happy for you ! ! ! ! # thirsty hahahah ...
. go the # australian # worldcupfinal2015
' the australian captain allan border ( left ) and warne celebrate in the dressing room after the 1st test match between england and australia at old trafford in manchester , june 7 1993
australia won by 179 runs in a former victory , warne ( left ) of australia sprays the team with beer as they celebrate winning the test by 10 wickets , during day three of the first test between india and australia in mumbai