newly elected afghan president ashraf ghani admitted to his love of corned beef sandwiches from katz 's deli in new york on wednesday as he addressed congress in washington at a formal dinner in his honor
' i was another beneficiary of u.s. ’s wonderful generosity , ' president ashraf ghani said
' i ate corned beef at katz ’s , new york ’s greatest , greasiest , pickle - lined melting pot , ' he added as the room erupted in unanimous laughter
katz 's , established in 1888 , is the oldest delicatessen in new york
peaceful meeting : president of afghanistan ashraf ghani delivered an address to a joint meeting of congress on wednesday where he expressed his love for katz 's deli in new york the establishment is open daily staring at 8:00am and is open all night on friday and saturday
for 18.75 a patron can scoop up ashraf ghani 's favorite corned beef creation
' our secret " dry cure " pickling formula requires a full month to be ready to serve , ' says katz 's website of the delicacy
' the secret to finishing is to pace yourself , ' adds the new york staple 's page
ashraf ghani also thanked congress for slowly but surely helping to rebuild his country following the afghan war in 2001
he expressed his gratitude for the millions of u.s. tax dollars and vowed his war - wracked country will be self - reliant within this decade
' we 're not going to be the lazy uncle joe , ' he said
president 's favorite : ' i was another beneficiary of u.s. ’s wonderful generosity , ' president ashraf ghani said
' i ate corned beef at katz ’s , new york ’s greatest , greasiest , pickle - lined melting pot , ' ashraf ghani said on wednesday in a speech to a joint meeting of congress , ashraf ghani moved to mend u.s. - afghan relations that were frayed under former president karzai
lawmakers have been critical about the lengthy u.s. troop presence in u.s. 's longest war , wasteful spending in afghan and were stung by karzai 's anti-american rhetoric
ashraf ghani humbly thanked congress for the nearly $ 107 billion it has appropriated for afghan so far
he paid homage to the 2,200 u.s. servicemen and - women who lost their lives in the war and the thousands more who were wounded , and thanked the u.s. aid workers who built schools , wells and cured the sick
' at the end of the day , it is the ordinary u.s. whose hard - earned taxes have over the years built the partnership that has led to our conversation today , ' he said to applause in the house chamber packed with hundreds of lawmakers , dignitaries and guests
ashraf ghani , wearing a gray western suit , peppered his speech with anecdotes about the time he 's spent in u.s. , noting that he graduated from columbia university in new york and was in his world bank office in washington when the first plane smashed into the world trade center on 9/11
he touched on themes he hoped would convince lawmakers that he will be a reliable u.s. partner
oldest deli : katz 's , established in 1888 , is the oldest delicatessen in new york and is home to their famous corned beef sandwich he admitted that decades of war have resulted in high levels of fraud and graft in afghan and promised to eliminate corruption
ashraf ghani also voiced support for women 's rights and said he would emphasize law and justice and focus on self - reliance and economic development
' we do n't want your charity
we have no more interest in perpetuating a childish dependence than you have in being saddled with a poor family member who lacks the energy and drive to get out and find a job , ' ashraf ghani said
that 's a tall order for afghan
the national unity government that ashraf ghani runs with chief executive abdullah abdullah has not yet seated a full cabinet , and some of the country 's 30 - plus provinces are still run by acting governors
the country recently had a $ 500 million budget shortfall and domestic revenues missed targets by 26 percent , forcing the u.s. to step in in recent months to help cover the fiscal gap
more than a third of afghan live below the poverty line and the nation 's vast mineral resources remain virtually untapped
afghan also is not at peace , and ashraf ghani 's efforts to lure the taliban to reconciliation talks have not yet been fruitful
just hours before he spoke , at least six people were killed and more than 30 were wounded in a suicide car bombing near the presidential palace in kabul
ashraf ghani is untested as a leader , yet he received a warm reception from both republicans and democrats on capitol
the reason : he 's not karzai
expressed gratitude : afghan president ashraf ghani expresses his country 's gratitude for u.s. 's fiscal commitment , military sacrifices , and last but not least corned beef from katz 's deli house speaker john boehner issued a statement after the speech calling ashraf ghani a ' trusted partner
' and just before ashraf ghani stepped from the chamber , he and sen. john mccain , r-ariz. , who is chairman of the powerful senate armed services committee , embraced in a bear hug
obama said the u.s. would leave its 9,800 troops in afghan in place rather than downsizing to 5,500 by year 's end
the size of the u.s. footprint for next year is still to be decided , obama said , but he brushed aside any speculation the withdrawal will bleed into 2017
that means the slowdown wo n't jeopardize his commitment to end u.s. 's involvement in afghan before leaving office
obama slowed the pace of the withdrawal because of deficiencies in the afghan security forces , heavy casualties in the ranks of the army and police , the need for the ghani-abdullah government to gain traction and fears that islamic state fighters could gain a foothold in afghan
ashraf ghani said is militants , also known as daesh , pose a ' clear and present danger ' to afghan , and he challenged muslim leaders and intellectuals who believe that islamic is a religion of tolerance and virtue to speak out against islamic extremism
' if al-qaida was - with all due respect to microsoft - windows i , daesh is windows 5 , ' ashraf ghani said
it is brutal , but it is extraordinarily quick
' ashraf ghani 's speech drew much applause , but his appearance did n't create as much buzz in the capitol as israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu did when he spoke to congress earlier this month
some democrats skipped the israeli leader 's speech , in which he warned the u.s. that an emerging international agreement the u.s. was trying to reach with tehran would pave iran 's path to developing nuclear weapons .