precocious amateur bellis says she 's ready to take on the best of the pros - serena williams
bellis , a 15 - year - old american who made a big splash at last year 's u.s. open , advanced friday to a potential third - round match against serena williams by beating zarina diyas 6 - 2 , 6 - 1
serena williams ' second - round match friday night against monica niculescu was postponed until saturday because of rain
but bellis was already relishing the chance to take on the 19 - time grand slam champion
catherine " cici ' bellis of the american , pictured at the u.s. open this summer , advannced at the miami open on friday and may have a chance to go against serena williams ' it 's going to be really fun , ' bellis said
' i have nothing to lose , so i 'm just going to play my game and see what happens
' sloane stephens won an all - american match on the stadium court , converting five of six break - point chances to beat no. 17 keys 6 - 4 , 6 - 2
it was the first meeting between the two fed cup teammates , and keys teared up near the end of her loss
' i just kind of let the emotions get to me , ' the 20 - year - old keys said
' it 's like you 're having a really terrible day , but my terrible day is in front of hundreds of people and then broadcast on tv
that 's not always fun
' new opponent ? : cici bellis bellis is already relishing the chance to take on the 19 - time grand slam champion serena williams ( pictured ) after her recent win against zarina diyas no. 2 - seeded nadal , showing no ill effects from an ankle injury suffered in practice monday , defeated fellow spaniard nicolas almagro 6 - 4 , 6 - 2
' i am well , ' nadal said
' the day after , i had pain , but after two days i improved 50 percent
it 's not limiting my movements
' others advancing in the women 's draw included no. 3 simona halep , the titlist last week at indian wells
she won 6 - 4 , 2 - 6 , 6 - 1 against wild card nicole vaidisova , a two - time grand slam semifinalist mounting a comeback from two shoulder operations
two - time champion andy murray beat american donald young 6 - 4 , 6 - 2
other men 's winners included no. 7 stan wawrinka , no. 8 tomas berdych and no. 25 bernard tomic
american sam querrey had 19 aces but lost to no. 15 kevin anderson 6 - 7 ( 5 ) , 7 - 6 ( 3 ) , 6 - 4
no. 10 feliciano lopez was eliminated by dominic thiem , 7 - 6 ( 4 ) , 4 - 6 , 6 - 3
four - time champion djokovic lost in doubles and plays his opening singles match saturday night
' hopefully i can have another great week in miami , ' djokovic said
zarina diyas of kazakhstan shakes hands with catherine " cici ' bellis of the american at the u.s. open last year and on friday at the miami open bellis beat zarina diyas 6 - 2 , 6 - 1 ' some of my best tennis i have played here in these courts
' two - time champion azarenka reached the third round by beating no. 20 jelena jankovic 6 - 1 , 6 - 1
azarenka faced 13 break points and saved them all
' i stayed composed , ' azarenka said
' i was very sure what i had to do , and i was really executing that
' bellis became the youngest player to win a match at the u.s. open since 1996 when she upset 12th - seeded dominika cibulkova last august
suddenly a celebrity , bellis then lost to zarina diyas in the second round
she avenged that defeat friday with much less fanfare
' this one i think i played a lot smarter , ' bellis said
oppents : zarina diyas of kazakhstan returns a shot against catherine " cici ' bellis of the united statesduring their women 's singles second round match on day four of the 2014 u.s. open last year ' at the u.s. open i was really like caught up in all the kind of hype that was going on
but this one i was just really focused and played my game
i think i did what i needed to do to win really well
' the californian has yet to turn pro , and the miami open is her biggest tournament since the u.s. open
she made the draw as a wild card and played friday on remote court 9 , but she 'll be on the stadium court sunday if she faces serena williams , who has won key biscayne a record seven times
intimidating ? bellis says no. ' we are all in the same tournament , so we are all kind of at this level , ' she said
' you ca n't really think about who you 're playing
it 's just a ball that 's coming back on the other side of the court
you just have to go out and not think about that stuff and just play your game
that 's what i 'm planning to do