a rare five - dollar gold piece and a prized silver dollar each could fetch $ 10 million or more in upcoming auctions , making the u.s. rare coin market as attractive , though not nearly as glamorous , as fine art. sales of rare u.s. coins reached a record of nearly $ 536 million last year , and now collectors are turning to the d. brent pogue collection , which could boost it higher
gathered over more than 30 years by texas property developer a. mack pogue and his son , d. brent , it is considered the most valuable collection of federal u.s. coins dating from the 1790s to the late 1830s in private hands
the rare five - dollar gold piece and a prized silver dollar each could fetch $ 10 million or more in upcoming auctions an 1822 half eagle five - dollar gold piece , one of only three known to exist , and an silver dollar dubbed the ' king of american coins ' are expected to be among the top lots when the collection is sold in a series of auctions in new york beginning in may and continuing into 2017
' these two coins in particular , we think , have a possibility of being up around that $ 10 million mark , ' kendrella , the president of stack 's bowers galleries , told reuters
the rare coin and currency auctioneer , which is handling the sales with sotheby 's , believes the coins could shatter the $ 10 million record set in 2013 for a 1794 silver dollar
although jaw - dropping prices for contemporary art grabbed headlines in 2014 , rare coins also had a banner year and are among the biggest collectibles behind art and antiques
a 200 - year - old silver dollar dubbed the ' " king of american coins , ' is seen in an undated handout photo courtesy of pcgs coin sales are driven by the economy , but kendrella said investors and collectors are also lured by the rarity , uniqueness , condition and historical links of coins
' they are artifacts that speak to what was going on in the u.s. at the time these coins were made , ' he said
' that 's one of the main draws
' with a dozen coins selling for $ 1 million or more in 2014 and the first gold coin struck for the u.s. fetching $ 4.5 million , the nonprofit professional numismatists guild estimates the overall u.s. rare coin market to be worth about $ 5 billion
walter husak , a retired aerospace entrepreneur based in california , knows just how lucrative it can be
a collection of 301 rare penny coins dating from 1793 to 1814 that he gathered over more than 13 years sold in 2008 for $ 10.7 million , about double what he invested in it
' i never thought it would go up that much , ' he said
' there are a lot of people getting involved in coins
' stuppler , secretary of the professional numismatists guild , has seen plenty of changes in his 52 years in the coin business , with buyers increasing in recent years
' it is a combination of the economy coming back , ' he said of the market , ' and the fact that interest rates are very low
' the internet also has been ' a tremendous , tremendous source of new buyers and sellers of coins that we did n't have 20 years ago , ' said stuppler
demand for rare , investment - quality coins , graded and certified by the guild and the florida - based numismatic guaranty corporation , is high and supply is low
' the rarities do the best , particularly gold and silver coins , ' said stuppler