video footage has emerged showing a naked air force veteran running around his atlanta apartment complex before police arrived on the scene and shot him dead
in the footage obtained by wsbtv , anthony ' hill , 27 , can be seen walking outside the heights at chamblee apartment complex , climbing balconies and crawling around on the floor
police responded to reports that an unclothed man was running around the complex and banging on people 's doors
officers arrived at the apartments just after 1pm on monday
one witness told wsbtv that he told hill to go inside otherwise he was going to get arrested
' he was like kind of lost in his face
' an officer approached him and hill turned towards him , authorities said
' when the male saw the officer , he charged , running at the officer , ' said dekalb county director of public safety alexander
' the officer called on him to step back , drew his weapon and fired two shots
' witness oscar perez told abc11alive : ' the man , he was liked drugged , but he was naked and he was crawling
i think the police officer thought he was going to attack , so he shot him
' hill was shot in the upper torso
the officer , who is white , is a seven - year veteran of the dekalb county police department
he has not been identified
county police chief alexander told reporters that the officer had been equipped with a taser at the time of the shooting
he would not comment on whether the officer should have used the taser but said that the georgia bureau of investigation would take over the probe into the shooting
veteran : police said it was reasonable to assume that hill , who was an air force veteran who had served in the middle east , was suffering from a mental illness at the time of the incident killed : hill , pictured with his girlfriend bridget , was shot after he ran at the officer , police have said heartbroken : bridget took to twitter on monday to share her anguish over the death of her boyfriend shocked : bridget said the couple had been celebrating three years together on monday he added that he could ' reasonably assume ' that hill was possible suffering from mental illness at the time , given his behavior
on his social media profiles , hill had used the hashtag ' # iambipolar '
in his final facebook post on monday morning , hill wrote : ' where i once saw death i only see life
' social media also shows hill was an air force veteran who had served in the middle east
his girlfriend , bridget anderson , wrote on twitter on monday : ' my boyfriend was shot and killed today by an officer
never in a million years did i think this would happen
' i thought cops were suppose to protect and serve ? ? ? ? they took the love of my life away ! ! ! ! ! ' she added on twitter that monday had been their three - year anniversary
scene : hill was shot twice by a white officer at the heights of chamblee apartment complex in atlanta dekalb county police chief dr alexander , pictured last year , said the officer was also carrying a taser ' who will i share my secrets with now ? ' she wrote
' who will i call when something good happens ? how will i move on from this ? lord give me the strength
' police forces across the country have come under fire for their use of lethal force , especially against ethnic minorities , the poor and the mentally ill. mr alexander added : ' we have already , as many departments have begun to do , look at how do we expand our mental health training
it appears that we 're seeing more and more of these cases across the country in which police are engaging with those who may be in distress
' hill is at least the third african-american since last friday who has or has appeared to have been unarmed when killed by police
police near denver last friday fatally shot an unarmed man who was a wanted fugitive
on the same day , an officer in madison , wisconsin fatally shot a biracial 19 - year - old , prompting some 2,000 students to march in the state 's capital on monday