when fitness guru kayla announced a free aus boot camp , thousands travelled to the major cities to take part
however none travelled as far as vanessa tan , who flew over 6000 kilometres from singapore to sydney to participate in the 45 minute work out
the 27 - year - old canadian woman from singapore heard her idol would not be bringing the free work outs to asia and consequently booked the next flight to aus and arrived the night before the session
taking to social media to vent her excitement , vanessa tan tweeted kayla , ' who 's going to meet kayla ? me ! ahhh so excited ! flying to sydney just in time for her boot camp ! ' kayla 's team got word of vanessa tan 's long journey and dedication and made her a vip for the day , showering her with ' goodies ' and ' super vip treatment
' ' i did n't know if i would ever have the chance to go to one of her bootcamps , seeing as when she released the cities she ’s going to on her world tour , ' ms. vanessa tan told news.com.au ' see you tomorrow sydney ' kayla took to social media to tweet a message to her thousands of followers ' who 's going to meet kayla itsines ? ! meee ! ahh so excited ' vanessa tan tweeted after booking her flight kayle itsines gained popularity after posting body transformation photos of her clients the boot camp was run by 2day fm and hosted by dan and maz who also participated in the work out ' i just decided to fly over and take this opportunity to just experience it
' the only instructions for the day were to bring a drink bottle and a mat or towel to place in front of the stage where kayla led the pack
the vigorous work out included burpies , lunges , crunches and various other strenuous exercises , all in time with the tunes played by an on site dj. as well as sydney , the boot camp was also available in brisbane at the showgrounds and perth at the foreshore
kayla , a personal trainer from adelaide , shot to fame when she began posting her client 's body transformations on her instagram page
she now has over 2.4 million followers on instagram and a over a million subscribers world wide to her 12 week bikini body challenge
before the session took place , kayla tweeted pictures of a work out and interview with 2day fm 's maz compton , captioning the image , ' she smashed it ! '