reading mean tweets has become a common celebrity meme recently - but one newsreader has turned the concept on its head
in a segment on sbs 's program the feed , chin became the latest star to participate in the trend - but instead of reading out abusive messages she had been sent , she read out cheeky tweets she wrote herself
from bbc star jeremy clarkson and australian journalists karl and stefanovic to fashion brand dolce and gabbana , chin - who is known on twitter for her sassy sense of humour - shared some of her best posts
' for abc journalist tony jones , who hosts the network 's weekly panel show qanda , chin had some advice
' how about instead of asking questions you form your own opinion you fence sitting nimrod , ' the sbs newsreader wrote
chin also took aim at fashion brand dolce and gabbana , claiming only ' poor people who just won the lottery ' actually buy their ' so called designs '
and she had a message for tv 's stefanovic brothers
' @ karlstefanovic and @ peterstefanovic ' i 'm calling for a fight to the death between you two
chin described abc 's qanda host tony jones as a ' fence - sitting nimrod ' the newsreader also suggested the stefanovic brothers ' fight to the death ' saying she would wed the winner ' highlander rules
there can only be one
xx , ' she read out with a wry smile
chin angled for some free booze in another tweet to coopers brewery ... but not before insulting the company 's beverages
' do you brew your beer in a toilet ? because it tastes like poo
having said that i 'd be interested in some free samples
' colleague marc fennell , who hosts the feed got a simple ' f * * * you ' , while chin also threw elbows at sbs world news anchor anton enus
chin angled for some free booze in another tweet to coopers brewery , but not before insulting the company 's beverages fellow sbs colleague ricardo gonclaves bored the brunt of chin 's online abuse ' what 's it like needing a co-host to hold your hand ? reading the news is n't that hard ... are you dyslexic ? ' chin asked
however it was fellow sbs colleague ricardo goncalves who really bore the brunt of chin 's xxxx ' in six months you 'll be working for @ buzzfeedoz ... on a freelance basis , ' she taunted in one tweet
' i know you want my job but the only way you 'll get it if i die
but that 's not going to happen because i 'm immortal
the alpha and the omega ! the beginning and the end ! ' the sbs host wrote in another
chin is well known for her sharp sense of humour on social media she often points fun at herself , and those around her some of the newreader 's best work is centred around her age chin is well known for her sharp sense of humour on social media , and since joining twitter last year has amassed over 22,000 followers
some of her best work includes postings about her age , other tv presenters , being a ' bachelorette ' and a classic ' your your mum ' joke thrown into the mix. ' let 's face facts , tv presenters and newsreaders are just people who wanted to be famous but could n't act or sing ' , one of chin 's recent tweets reads
' i 'll die as a i lived , alone by choice # bachelorettelife ' , she wrote in another
' all my childhood friends have grandchildren , haha ! what boring idiots ! ' , the newsreader quipped earlier this year
' i 'll die as a i lived , alone by choice # bachelorettelife ' , she wrote in one of her tweets classic ' your mum ' jokes are often thrown into the mix