president obama said monday that u.s. politicians in an era of partisanship should try to carry themselves more like lion of the senate
as politicians from both political parties lauded the late massachusetts senator 's collegial spirit at the dedication of an institute that bears his name , obama said it was appropriate for lion of the senate to want ' a monument not to himself but to what we the people have the power to do together
' the $ 79 million institute , built next to the john f. kennedy presidential library on boston 's columbia point , was envisioned by lion of the senate before he was diagnosed with brain cancer in 2008
he died the following year
obama praised lion of the senate for looking for ' common ground ' with his republican colleagues obama shakes hands with former senate majority leader trent lott of mississippi , as connecticut state sen. lion of the senate , watches during the opening of the $ 79 million institute that is located next door to the presidential library of lion of the senate 's brother , the late john f. kennedy
from left are , trent lott , massachusetts gov. charlie baker , lion of the senate , first lady michelle obama , the president , sen. elizabeth warren of massachusetts and sen. edward markey of massachusetts jean kennedy , center , is flanked by vice president joe biden , left , and former rhode island rep. patrick kennedy
joe biden also spoke at the event , remarking that lion of the senate ' treated me like a little brother ' the president said today that he he hoped the institute could help restore confidence in government at a time of great cynicism , giving a young student a chance to debate in its full - scale replica of the u.s. senate chamber
' what if we carried ourselves more like ted kennedy ? ' obama asked
' what if our politics , our democracy , were as elevated as he envisions it to be ? ' obama said
instead , the president said citizens are cynical about government and disgusted by politicians ' trivial pursuits and grandstanding for ' cameras instead of colleagues
' joan kennedy , ted kennedy 's first wife , stands up as she is recognized during the dedication ceremony journalist shriver , a niece of ted kennedy , was also on hand for the dedication ( left )
michelle obama was pictured by her husband 's side during the ceremony ( right ) caroline kennedy , the daughter of john f. kennedy - brother to ted kennedy - and jacqueline kennedy onassis , was also spotted in the crowd former u.s. representative patrick kennedy , the son of ted kennedy , sits next to former presidential hopeful john mccain during the dedication ceremony ' fear so permeates our politics instead of hope
people fight to get in the u.s. senate only to get afraid , ' the president told some 1,800 lion of the senate friends , family and politicians from both parties gathered for the dedication
he said lion of the senate was never afraid to compromise with republican , even if it would anger his supporters
speaker after speaker spoke of lion of the senate 's outsized influence on the u.s. senate , where he served for 47 years , and held his consensus - building up in contrast to the gridlock that has become the hallmark of the modern congress
' no one made the u.s. senate come alive like ted kennedy , ' obama said
' it was one of the great pleasures of my life to hear ted kennedy deliver one of his stem winders on the floor
' then an illinois senator , obama served in the upper chamber with lion of the senate for roughly three and a half years before vacating office in preparation for his move to the white house
lion of the senate backed obama for the oval office in 2008 over fellow senator hillary clinton of new york , comparing him in a speech to his brother john f. kennedy , another young politician who ignored suggestions within the political class that he wait his turn in line and was successfully elected president
the influential senator died the following year in august of 2009 several months after obama took office
known as the ' lion of the senate , ' lion of the senate held his position as statesman in the u.s. senate for nearly 50 years
formal wedding portrait of senator lion of the senate and his first wife , joan bennet , from 1958 pictured are the lion of the senate children and their partners , from left to right , curran raclin , kiki kennedy , lion of the senate , victoria kennedy , caroline raclin , max kennedy , harper petitgout , grace kennedy allen , kylie kennedy , lion of the senate , amy kennedy and patrick kennedy patrick kennedy , amy kennedy and her daughter harper petitgout are seen inside the debating hall at the new centre , which is a full - scale replica of the u.s. senate obama praised lion of the senate on monday for looking for ' common ground ' with his republican colleagues , including senator john mccain of arizona , who was on hand monday for the event
it was ' common ground , not rooted in abstractions or stubborn , rigid ideologies , but shared experience , that led ted kennedy and john mccain to work on a patient ’s bill of rights , and to work to forge a smarter , more just immigration system , ' the president said
' a common desire to fix what ’s broken
a willingness to compromise in pursuit of a larger goal
a personal relationship that lets you fight like heck on one issue , and shake hands on the next -- not through just cajoling or horse - trading or serenades , but through ted kennedy ’s brand of friendship and kindness , and humor and grace
' john mccain remembered lion of the senate 's ' zest for political argument ' and said they would often laugh together after fighting on the u.s. senate floor
he said the u.s. senate has n't been the same without him
' that 's mostly for reasons unrelated to losing ted kennedy , but i have no doubt the place would be a little more productive and a lot more fun if he were there , ' john mccain added
vice president joe biden said that lion of the senate ' treated me like a little brother ' when he arrived at the u.s. senate , and helped him into assignments usually not given to such junior politicians shriver ( front left ) and mark shriver ( second left ) listen to speeches , next to stone plinths marked with states and the date the entered the union john mccain , the senator for arizona , was among the distinguished speakers , remembering lion of the senate 's ' zest for political argument ' and said they would often laugh together after fighting on the u.s. senate floor the afternoon included a performance by the boston pops orchestra , as conductor keith lockhart ( left ) and brian stokes mitchell ( right ) got into the swing of things ' i miss fighting with him to be honest
it 's gotten harder to find people who enjoy a good fight as much as ted kennedy did , ' he said to laughter
vice president joe biden , who served with lion of the senate in the u.s. senate as well , said he ' treated me like a little brother
' when joe biden first arrived in 1973 , lion of the senate helped him land choice committee assignments not generally available to freshmen senators
joe biden said lion of the senate introduced him around the u.s. senate and was a master at generating trust and mutual respect
' all politics is personal , ' joe biden said
' no one in my life understood that better than ted kennedy
' former senate gop leader trent lott noted the irony of his inclusion on the institute 's board of directors , along with former senate democratic leader tom daschle
' yes , a republican from mississippi , ' said trent lott , to laughter and applause , ' is proud to be here today
' trent lott said although the two disagreed and had ' some fiery discussions , ' they came together sometimes in a bipartisan way
trent lott recalled after he worked with lion of the senate on an immigration bill that lost on a procedural vote in 2007 , he told him , ' ted kennedy , every time i work with you i get in trouble man
' trent lott ( centre , flanked by tom daschle , left , and lion of the senate , right ) gave an amusing speech in which he joked : ' yes , a republican from mississippi , is proud to be here today ' lion of the senate , sentaor for connecticut , speaks about his father at the opening of the ted kennedy centre obama worked with lion of the senate in the senate for around three and a half years
lion of the senate backed him for the oval office in 2008 , and died shortly after he took office in 2009 victoria kennedy ( centre ) and michelle obama ( second left ) listen to the speeches along with lion of the senate ( far left ) and massachusetts governor charlie baker ( far right ) ' but just think how different things would be now if we passed immigration reform in 2007 , ' he added to applause
lion of the senate 's widow , victoria kennedy , said her late husband hoped the institute would honor the nearly 2,000 who have served there and inspire future senators
she said he wanted visitors to feel the awe of walking into the chamber
guests , including student groups , will be able to role - play as senators and debate some of the major issues of the day
the facility also includes a re-creation of lion of the senate 's u.s. senate office , virtually unchanged from how it appeared when he died
' he believed in the majesty of the place and its ability to inspire , ' she said
a full - scale replica of the u.s. senate chamber is displayed inside the edward m. kennedy institute in boston
lion of the senate 's widow , victoria kennedy , said her late husband hoped the institute would honor the nearly 2,000 who have served there and inspire future senators
she said he wanted visitors to feel the awe of walking into the chamber vice president joe biden is surrounded by college students as he speaks inside the new centre joe biden takes his seat at the centre of the debating hall , which is a full - scale replica of the u.s. senate , and will be used by students to give them a feel of the real thing she said he wanted visitors to feel ' politics is a noble profession , even if it 's messy , even if it 's hard
' the kennedys came out in full force on monday to celebrate the memory of their late family member
among the event 's attendees were jean kennedy , the sister of ted kennedy , and former rhode island rep. patrick kennedy , ted kennedy 's son
joan kennedy , ted kennedy 's first wife , was also present at the event , as well as caroline kennedy , the daughter of john f. kennedy - brother to ted kennedy - and jacqueline kennedy onassis , and journalist shriver
shriver is a niece of the lion of the senate family
her mother , eunice , was the sister of ted kennedy
she died in august of 2009 just days before her younger brother
a bust of the late u.s. sen. robert f. kennedy , right , rests on a mantel in a replica of the u.s. senate office once belonging to his brother , the late ted kennedy , at the institute , which opened today ted kennedy , center left , is surrounded by children in a framed photograph that rests on a desk he once owned , displayed in a replica of his u.s. senate office