a bollywood actress has created a video with vogue india in an effort to empower women in the country
the project , which is entitled my choice , is about installing the belief that women have a choice over the body , their relationships and their future
in the clip , actress deepika padukone recites a poem about the freedoms females should be entitled to , while the images of 100 , mostly unknown , women from mumbai flash up on the screen
actress deepika padukone , who has released a video about female empowerment with vogue india in the film , she addresses the common notion in most parts of the country that women should dress modestly
she says : ' my body , my mind , my choice
to wear the clothes i like ; even if my spirit roams naked
' my choice ; to be a size 0 or a size 15
they do n’t have a size for my spirit , and never will , ' to use cotton and silk to trap my soul is to believe that you can halt the expansion of the universe
' since it was published at the weekend , the video , which was produced by filmmaker homi adajania , has been viewed more than two million times
deepika padukone at the cannes film festival in 2010 while many responses to the clip have been positive , there has also been a significant backlash
many of its critics have taken issue with one of the parts of the speech where deepika padukone talks about sex outside of marriage
she says : ' my choice to marry , or not to marry , ' to have sex before marriage , to have sex out of marriage , or to not have sex , my choice to love temporarily , or to lust forever
' twitter user ‏ @ roopabanerjee wrote : ' the main error in deepika padukone 's # vogueempower video : a world where # mychoice rules would be a sad and dangerous place to live in
' another called @ amaa_yaar wrote : ' the speed of universe 's expansion is directly proportionate to a woman sleeping outside her marriage ! ' twitter reactions to the my choice video others have taken issue with who the message is directed at , claiming that the women who would really benefit from it are india 's poorest , but that it is being shared among the those who are already empowered - the middle classes
india writer soumonty kanungo wrote in a blog post : ' when it says " my body , my mind , my choice " , what is the video really trying to convey ? whose choice ? urban women ? educated urban women ? educated , working urban women ? is there any choice for those unexposed to this video ? no ! ' there are thousands of women in lanes and by - lanes of cities and villages of india who do n't have a choice
choice is too fancy a word for them
they just take orders and obey
' they take orders in every step of their lives as their choices are not for themselves alone , but for their families as well
' are they wrong in thinking beyond themselves ? are they wrong , if they chose to compromise to make room for those they love ? these are far more real choices , much more significant than clothes and sex