they spent eight years battling infertility before eventually conceiving - quadruplets
now , ashley and tyson gardner have brought home the last of their four daughters from hospital
in a series of heartwarming photos , the new parents captured the moment they carried baby indie out of the neonatal intensive care unit in utah where she has spent the first two months of her life
in one of the images , ashley is pictured beaming in a denim jacket and a black - and - white dress as she and tyson gardner hold a car seat carrying their daughter , who weighs just over 4lbs , on saturday
above , the couple are pictured beaming as they hold a car seat carrying tiny indie mae , who weighs just over 4lbs emotional : the couple - who spent eight years battling infertility before conceiving quadruplets - embrace in the neonatal intensive care unit at utah valley regional medical center shortly before taking indie home home at last : the gardners posted the above pictures to their dedicated facebook page on saturday , telling their 420,000 followers : ' best day of our lives ! indie is home ! our whole family is home together ! ' in others , the gardners - who welcomed their quadruplets into the world on december 28 following ivf - are seen cuddling each other and posing with nurse destiny avery and dr stephen minton
once home , the couple posted the pictures to their dedicated facebook page , telling their 420,000 followers : ' best day of our lives ! indie is home ! our whole family is home together ! ' they added : ' the emotional roller coaster has been fun but we are ready to be home together for the next roller coaster ride ! ! ! we feel so blessed that this has turned out so perfectly ! we are going to take the rest of this weekend off social media and bond together as a whole family ! ' indie , who was struggling to feed in the nicu less than a week ago , has now joined her identical twin sister , esme , and twins scarlett and evangeline , at the gardners ' home in pleasant grove
reunited : indie ( pictured , far left , in a previous facebook photo ) has now joined her identical twin sister , esme ( far right ) , and twins scarlett ( second right ) and evangeline , at the gardners ' home in pleasant grove , utah nicu doctor : on saturday , the couple also posted this photo of themselves with indie and dr stephen minton thankful : and they uploaded an image with nurse destiny avery , who helped look after their four daughters ashley and tyson gardner brought the first of their daughters - evangeline - home on february 16
at one point during her first night away from hospital , the little girl slept for a full four hours straight
four days later , the couple were allowed to take home scarlett and esme
the following day , they revealed on the facebook page that their first night with three babies was ' tiring , but worth it '
it is yet to be seen how ashley and tyson gardner will cope with all of their four daughters at home , without the round - the - clock care that the babies had at the utah valley regional medical center in provo
as they have done throughout their journey , the couple are looking to their faith to stay strong
in saturday 's facebook post , they said : ' we feel so blessed that this has turned out so perfectly ! we know our father in heaven is watching over us and has guided us , the babies and the doctors
' first of four : ashley and tyson gardner brought the first of their daughters - evangeline ( pictured ) - home on february 16
at one point during her first night away from hospital , the little girl slept for a full four hours straight big girl : evangeline was the first of her sisters strong enough to leave utah valley regional medical center parenthood is a breeze ! in a post in february , ashley wrote their daughter had a peaceful first night at home they added : ' the doctors are the first to admit that this has been a true miracle in everyone 's eye and they babies statistically should not have done this well ! ( sic ) ' indeed , the quadruplets birth was a one - in - 70 million chance
the gardners had spent eight years trying to conceive when they underwent their first - successful - round of in vitro fertilization
the couple hit the headlines last october after ashley 's priceless reaction to discovering she was pregnant with quadruplets was caught on video and posted online , where it quickly went viral
footage showed ashley gazing open - mouthed at the screen , before placing her hand on her forehead and breathing out
she then started laughing hysterically alongside her husband
the couple went on to become a national sensation , documenting their pregnancy on social media
second and third : on february 20 , the couple were allowed to take home scarlett and esme ( pictured )
the following day , they revealed on facebook that their first night with three babies was ' tiring , but worth it ' hitting the headlines : the couple hit the headlines last october after ashley 's priceless reaction ( pictured ) to discovering she was pregnant with quadruplets was caught on video and posted online , where it went viral
unlikely : ashley says the chances of her conceiving the four girls - and them surviving - is 70million - to - one ' people identify with our story
there are hundreds , thousands of people that struggle with infertility , ' tyson gardner told deseret news earlier this year , adding : ' our story 's a story of hope
' on december 28 , ashley gave birth to their four daughters via c - section
the girl 's weights at birth were 1lb 13oz ( indie ) , 2lbs 9oz ( esme ) , 2lbs 6oz ( scarlett ) and 2 lbs 10oz ( evangeline )
the quadruplets ' survival was deemed a ' miracle ' after emergency surgery was needed to stop contractions when ashley was around 20 weeks pregnant
the couple were forced to fly to a specialist center at hollywood presbyterian hospital , where ashley was admitted for surgery in late october doctors managed to stave off the earlier delivery after an intense operation , which allowed the unborn babies vital extra weeks to bolster their chances of survival
a few days ago : on tuesday , ashley wrote on the social networking site that she wished she could take indie home soon
' sitting here at the nicu holding my indie girl ! she seems very restless tonight , ' she wrote heartbroken : she added : ' she must know that all her sisters are gone
she settled right down after snuggling in with mommy ! it breaks my heart that she is still here at the nicu ! i want to bring her home so badly ! ' tyson gardner said doctors told his wife she needed immediate surgery after it appeared her cervix had started to open and she could be going into early labor
incredibly , surgeons also managed to cure two of the girls of their twin - to - twin transfusion syndrome ( ttts ) , which could have resulted in developmental problems
doctors made the decision to deliver the babies by c - section after ashley started experiencing contractions a few weeks early in december
shortly after the birth , ashley took to facebook to express her delight at her four tiny bundles of joy , writing : ' they are simply perfect ! my heart is so full ! and to think , i almost gave up before doing ivf
getting into the festive spirit : the gardners posted this picture online before the birth of their girls , writing : ' santa let the elves take over for a bit today so he could come visit us in the hospital ! ! # happy29weeks ' proud new father : tyson gardner later posted this image : ' moms saying hello to esme ! incredible day ! god is real ' ' i felt so broken and did n't feel i could take any more ! i gathered the courage to try once again and look ! to you i say never give up on your dreams ! you never know when they will come true ! ' on tuesday , ashley wrote on the social networking site that she wished she could take indie home soon
' sitting here at the nicu holding my indie girl ! she seems very restless tonight , ' she wrote
' she must know that all her sisters are gone
she settled right down after snuggling in with mommy ! it breaks my heart that she is still here at the nicu ! i want to bring her home so badly ! ' thanks to the efforts of indie 's doctors and nurses , her wish has now come true .