when a fan decided to start an online conversation with jk rowling about the weekend ’s scotland v italy rugby match , he was stunned to get a reply
now the italian is boxing up a jar of nutella to send to the harry potter author following a wager over which country would win
brutto tweeted the writer on saturday , ahead of the six nations clash at murrayfield in edinburgh , saying : ‘ i ’m italian and i ca n’t wait for this match
watch what we can do ! ’ jk rowling and her husband watch from the stands during the six nations rugby clash between scotland and italy at murrayfield on saturday before the game , the harry potter author made a bet with an italian rugby fan on twitter saying she would send him a signed book if scotland won
if italy won he had to send her a jar of nutella to his surprise , miss jk rowling , who lives in edinburgh , replied : ‘ are you going to be at murrayfield ? ’ her overseas admirer was almost lost for words , saying : ‘ i do n’t know what to write you cause i do n’t understand
oh my god ! thank you jo
’ the author then promised to send him a signed book if scotland won ‘ to ease the pain ’ – but asked : ‘ what will you give me if italy win ? ’ he replied : ‘ i can not compare a signed book with one of my gift … but i think a simple but stronger hug or a kiss or a nutella
’ miss jk rowling agreed , saying : ‘ ok , italy wins , you have to send me some nutella
scotland wins , you get a signed book
’ the italian players celebrate after winning 22 - 19 in the game , meaning that the author lost the bet with mr brutto after the match , miss jk rowling tweeted the italian rugby fan congratulating his side on victory and reminding him he still owed her a jar of nutella eventually mr brutto replied by posting a picture of the chocolate spread and asking for the author 's address so he could send it to her after a penalty try in the 80th minute gave italy a 22 - 19 win over scotland , she tweeted : ‘ at least i ’ll have nutella . congrats andrea , you can have the book anyway
i need a very large drink
x ’ mr brutto posted a picture of the jar of the chocolate spread that will soon be heading to scotland
the 49 - year - old writer also tweeted her support for madonna , following the star ’s fall at the brits last week
miss jk rowling wrote : ‘ are you the sort of person who gloats when they see a woman fall , or the kind that celebrates a magnificent recovery ? # teammadonna ’ the delighted singer retweeted her famous fan ’s support , before saying : ‘ thank you jk rowling ! so nice to read your words of support ! women supporting women ! hell to the yeah ! ’