heinz is buying kraft foods group inc. , creating one of the largest food and beverage companies in the world with annual revenue of about $ 28 billion
the kraft heinz will own kraft foods group inc. , heinz , oscar mayer , ore-ida and other brands
eight of those brands have annual sales of $ 1 billion or more and five others log sales between $ 500 million and $ 1 billon every year
the deal to bring together the two companies , each more than a century old , was engineered by warren buffett 's berkshire hathaway and brazilian investment firm 3g capital
the two will invest another $ 10 billion in the new company
shares of kraft foods group inc. jumped 26per cent wednesday before the opening bell
kraft foods group inc. shareholders will receive stock in the combined company and a special cash dividend of approximately $ 10 billion , or $ 16.50 per share
each share of kraft foods group inc. will be converted into one share of kraft heinz
feeding the nation : kraft heinz will maintain headquarters in pittsburgh , where heinz is based , and also in the chicago area , where kraft foods group inc. resides here 's a look at companies and brands that will be combined under the kraft foods group inc. deal : name : heinz location : pittsburgh employees : 24,500 net income : $ 657.1 million ( 2014 ) revenue : $ 10.9 billion ( 2014 ) brands : classico pasta sauce , ore-ida , heinz ketchup , lea & perrins , bagel bites , nurture infant formula , weight watchers smart ones , and golden circle
name : kraft foods group inc. location : northfield , illinois employees : 22,100 net income : $ 1.04 billion ( 2014 ) revenue : $ 18.2 billion ( 2014 ) brands : a1 , athenos , caprisun , breakstones , cracker barrel , cool whip , cheez whiz , country time lemonade , jell-o , kool aid , maxwell house , oscar mayer , planters , stove top and velveeta
current heinz shareholders will own 51per cent of the combined company , with kraft foods group inc. shareholders owning a 49per cent stake
annual cost savings estimated to be $ 1.5 billion are expected to be booked by the end of 2017
warren buffett and 3g capital snapped up heinz in a deal valued at $ 23.3 billion two years ago
' this is my kind of transaction , ' said warren buffett in a printed statement
' uniting two world - class organizations and delivering shareholder value
' i 'm excited by the opportunities for what this new combined organization will achieve
' heinz ceo alex behring will become ceo , alex behring , heinz chairman and managing partner at 3g capital , will be chairman
kraft ceo and chairman john cahill will become vice chairman
the deal still needs a nod from federal regulators as well as shareholders of kraft foods group inc. , but the boards of both companies unanimously approved it
the planned closing is set for the second half of the year
kraft heinz plans to keep kraft foods group inc. 's current dividend per share once the transaction closes
kraft foods group inc. has no plans to change its dividend before the deal is complete .