america has long been known for its cultural diversity but the rise of the hispanic population is unlike any other minority group in the country 's history
by mid-century , up to one in four americans will be of hispanic descent and the white majority will give way to a so - called ' minority majority
' the census bureau defines hispanic or hispanics to refer to ' a person of cuban , mexican , puerto rican , south or central american ( except for brazil ) , or other spanish culture or origin regardless of race
' the economist reports that more lenient immigration laws in the 1960s took the hispanic population from just 7m in 1970 to 57m today , a number which is predicted to double by 2050
rise of america : hispanics are becoming the nation 's largest minority but inequalities between whites and hispanics still exist the immigration and naturalization act of 1965 abolished the quota system based on national origin
national quotas limited the number of people who were allowed immigrate from other countries
thanks to the civil rights movement , the immigration policy shifted and became focused on reuniting immigrant families and attracting new labor to the u.s.
for nearly two centuries and up until the time ronald reagan was president , white european immigrants made up to 80 per cent of the u.s. population
now less than two thirds of the population are white and whites will be a minority by 2044 , says census bureau
since 2000 , the population of the u.s. has grown by slightly over 40 million people
thirty five million , or 90 percent , of that growth is from minorities - hispanics , asian americans and americans , says a report published bybusiness wire
the u.s. hispanic population jumped to 58.2 million in 2015 , an increase of 2 million during the past year , says the same report
the growth of the hispanic population is due to both convenient geography and rising birth rates , says the economist
the u.s. is close in proximity to hispanics ' several countries of origin which makes immigration and communicating with families back home much easier
increase in numbers : more lenient immigration laws in the 1960s took the hispanic population from just 7m in 1970 to 57m today , a number which is predicted to double by 2050 rapid growth : close geography of latin countries to the u.s. and growing birth rates among hispanics in america is causing rapid population growth compared to other minorities currently , 85percent of hispanics are legal residents and latino growth is not so much from immigration anymore as it is from births in the u.s.
according to a study published by pew research on march 9 , births within the hispanic community drives 78 per cent of population growth in the u.s.
despite hispanic growth , many inequalities still exist between whites and minority groups
currently u.s. hispanics earn less money , on average , than white americans
the median income of hispanic homes at $ 36,949 and the medium income of white households at a much larger $ 75,448
with almost 1million u.s. - born latinos reaching voting age annually , and latinos making up a significant portion of america 's labor force , income is expected to rise along with nationwide education reform
u.s. companies have also been advised to shift their focus to hispanic consumers who will be making up a majority of the u.s. population and will account for much of the nation 's future spending habits
the future : it is predicted that by 2050 there will be double the amount of hispanics than there are today shift from immigration to native births : currently , five - sixths of hispanics are legal residents and hispanics growth is not so much from immigration anymore as it is from births in the u.s.