a federal judge has been shot outside his house in an apparent attempted robbery , police said
judge terrence g. berg was approached by two men while taking the trash out from his detroit , michigan home around 9pm on thursday
a struggle ensued and the 55 - year - old was shot in the leg
the suspects , thought to be aged between 18 and 20 , escaped in a dark - coloured dodge charger
terrence g. berg 's condition is not known but police said the injury was not life - threatening
judge terrence g. berg ( above ) was shot in the leg after a struggle near his house in detroit , michigan steve dolunt , assistant police chief , said it was not clear whether it was an attempted robbery or failed burglary
' it happened in front of his house , ' he told the detroit news
monica moore , who lives opposite terrence g. berg , said she heard screaming and yelling
' i looked out and i saw there were a fair amount of people there
i could hear the police cars coming and then there was a lot of commotion , ' she told the detroit free press
chief gerald rosen district judge gerald rosen said : ' while we are relieved to hear that all indications are that judge terrence g. berg will be fine and make a quick recovery , the thoughts and prayers of our entire court family are with him and his family
' and brenda lawrence , congresswoman from michigan 's 14th district , added on twitter : ' i am praying for the health of federal judge terrence berg of detroit , with best wishes for a speedy recovery
' president barack obama ( above ) appointed terrence g. berg in 2012
before that , terrence g. berg served as an assistant u.s. attorney for the eastern district of michigan president barack obama appointed terrence g. berg in 2012
before that , terrence g. berg served as an assistant u.s. attorney for the eastern district of michigan
the father - of - three was also previously chief of a crime unit in the michigan attorney general 's office
if caught the pair would receive a higher charge if they are found to have targeted terrence g. berg because of his job
the fbi are investigating .