u.s. ambassador to japanese , kennedy , waves before she delivers opening remarks during an appearance at waseda university in tokyo on wednesday japanese police were investigating phone calls threatening to kill u.s. ambassador kennedy and another u.s. envoy , authorities said on wednesday
tokyo police were investigating calls to the u.s. embassy threatening to kill kennedy and similar ones targeting alfred magleby , the u.s. consul general based on the southern island of okinawa , according to police sources
tokyo police declined to comment
the embassy also did not comment , citing policy regarding the ambassador 's security
kennedy was due to meet with first lady michelle obama on her arrival in tokyo on wednesday to promote her ' let girls learn ' education initiative
michelle obama 's arrival coincided with a speech made by former u.s. president bill clinton at a tokyo university on wednesday afternoon alongside kennedy and japanese prime minister shinzo abe as they attended a symposium on the legacy of assassinated jfk
okinawa is home to about half of the 50,000 u.s. troops based in japanese
japanese media reports said that the death threats came last month from a caller speaking in english , and that police were looking into the case on suspicion of blackmailing
no other details , including motives , were known
kennedy was due to meet with first lady michelle obama on her arrival in tokyo on wednesday ( pictured ) to promote her ' let girls learn ' education initiative cbs reported that jfk 's daughter was often seen mixing freely with crowds during her high - profile outings in japanese
the state department said in a statement on thursday : ' we take any threats to u.s. diplomats seriously
' we take every step possible to protect our personnel
we are working with the japanese government to ensure the necessary measures are in place
we will not comment on the specific details of any threats or the steps we take to address them
' earlier this month , the u.s. ambassador to south korea , mark lippert , was knifed by an anti- u.s. activist in seoul and had to be hospitalized for several days
mark lippert suffered a deep facial gash and stab wound to his wrist after being attacked by a knife - wielding pro-north south korea activist during a breakfast forum
former u.s. president bill clinton was also in attendance at the tokyo event on wednesday
here , he bids a farewell to the audience after delivering a keynote speech at the jfk international symposium held at waseda university injured u.s. ambassador to south korea mark lippert , center , gets into a car to leave for a hospital in seoul , south korea on march 5 after being attacked by a man wielding a razor