conservative mp patel has accused her labour election rival of sending her misogynistic and racist tweets , one of which likened her to a ' sexy bond villain '
ms patel , who represents witham in essex , has called for clarke to be de-selected after he compared her to a ' village idiot ' on twitter
he has since apologised , but ms patel has urged labour leader ed miliband to take action against mr clarke , who she labelled a ' nasty piece of work '
conservative mp patel ( left ) has accused her labour election rival clarke ( right ) of sending her misogynistic and racist tweets , one of which likened her to a ' sexy bond villain ' the mother - of - one told mr ed miliband that mr clarke had been making ' derogatory , sleazy and demeaning comments , which had misogynistic and racist undertones to them '
in december , mr clarke responded to a tweet featuring ms patel 's comments on the autumn statement , writing : ' witham calling : the village is missing its idiot ! come home patel ... ' later that month he added : ' @ pritipatelmp was elected to represent the constituents of witham , not the indian community ( note i did n't say asian ... why ? ) ' in february he sent ms patel a link to another tweet asking : ' there 's a woman on the conservative party front bench who looks like she 'd be the sexy bond villain
who is she ! ? # pmqs ' he wrote : ' @ pritipatelmp if you 're the " sexy bond villain " does that make me bond , bond ? ( cue the music ! ) ' in december , mr clarke responded to a tweet featuring ms patel 's comments on the autumn statement , writing : ' witham calling : the village is missing its idiot ! come home patel ... ' in february mr clarke sent ms patel a tweet which likened her to a bond villain ms patel told labour leader ed miliband that mr clarke had been making ' derogatory , sleazy and demeaning comments , which had misogynistic and racist undertones to them ' last week the former teacher and university lecturer emailed ms patel to say : ' i would like to apologise to you for any offence caused and assure you that any inaccuracies will not be repeated ' the next week he wrote : ' @ pritipatelmp did the character deepa on the channel 4 programme ukip first 100 days remind u of anyone ? ' like ...
selling out principles , etc '
ms patel , who was elected in 2010 with a 15,000 majority , also accused mr clarke of ' lies ' after he claimed in a leaflet that she employed her husband alex sawyer on more than £ 50,000 a year
' he has been trolling me for ages and ages , ' she said
patel was elected to the seat of witham in essex in the 2010 election , having been placed on the conservative party ' a-list ' of prospective candidates following david cameron 's selection as party leader
she won the seat , created following a boundary review , with a 15,000 majority
ms patel was born and raised in london after her parents came to britain from ugandan in the 1970s
she studied at keele university and the university of essex , and after graduating , was given a job at conservative central office but then left to work in the press office of the eurosceptic , single issue referendum party
she rejoined the conservative party in 1997 , working in william hague 's press office , but left to join weber shandwick
ms patel stood as a conservative candidate in the 2005 general election but lost the nottingham north poll in a landslide to long - standing labour mp graham allen
ms patel is known for her strong stance on crime , but has been criticised for her support on tobacco industry positions and had voted for the smoking ban to be overturned in 2010
she is married to marketing director alex sawyer , and the couple have a son , freddie , who was born in 2008
' i wrote to ed miliband and asked him " what are you going to do about this nasty piece of work ? is this party policy ? do you sanction this sort of behaviour ? " ' i have had no response so i wrote him another letter asking him " what are you going to do ? " ' on friday i got a one - line email from him saying " ms patel i apologise " and that was it , ' said ms patel , whose parents were ugandan immigrants of indian heritage who moved to britain in the early 1970s
last week the former teacher and university lecturer emailed ms patel to say : ' i would like to apologise to you for any offence caused and assure you that any inaccuracies will not be repeated
' a labour spokesman said : ' the candidate has apologised for any offence caused and we are satisfied that any inaccuracies will not be repeated
' but ms patel retorted last night : ' until ed miliband turns around and says ' this is not acceptable , we are taking action against this individual ' , it is simply not enough
' she added : ' it is not just what he has put on twitter , it has been his conduct for what has been a considerable period of time
' i could take further action if i want to
' i am going to get back in touch with ed miliband and say : " are you going to stand by this guy ? are you sanctioning this kind of behaviour basically ? " ' the apology does not go nearly far enough
' as if he can brush that under the carpet after publishing a leaflet with loads of lies about me
' in my opinion he is totally unsuitable for public office
' conservative party vice chairman rebecca harris has also demanded that mr clarke is sacked and replaced
' this sort of behaviour does nothing to improve the image of politics in the eyes of the public , and i believe may be a deliberate attempt to appeal to the most unpleasant racial prejudice in our society , ' she said
mr clarke is yet to comment on ms patel 's call for him to be de-selected
ms patel has written to ed miliband to ask him to take action against mr clarke , calling her rival for the witham seat a ' nasty piece of work '