scandal : d.e. paulk discovered his father was actually his uncle , the archbishop of one of america 's biggest ' mega-churches ' , when he was 34 a mega-church pastor who discovered at the age of 34 that his archbishop uncle was actually his father has revealed how he found peace : by founding a ' radically inclusive ' church that recognises mohammed as well as christ
d.e. paulk , 42 , was brought up in the cathedral of the holy spirit at chapel hill
once the fourth biggest ' mega-church ' in the america , it occupied a purpose - built , $ 12million building with 7,000 seats , and boasted 12,000 members at its peak in the early nineties
but a series of sex scandals and financial difficulties brought the church established by d.e. paulk 's parents and uncle to its knees
speaking to cnn , d.e. paulk has revealed how it was the family 's ultimate scandal - the fact his archbishop uncle was his biological father - which finally gave him the strength to create a church based around his own beliefs
the spirit and truth sanctuary , which d.e. founded in 2012 , welcomes everyone from wiccans to atheists , hindus to muslim , recognising all gods and prophets , including mohammed
' [ scandal ] has a way of wiping out the things that keep you from being authentic , ' he said
' all you have left is who you are
the games are gone ... if there was anything i wanted to say i thought would be unacceptable to the church , now is the time to say it
' after much soul searching , d.e. paulk established his church based around one principle : ' christ can not be , and will not be , restricted to christian '
he preaches a message of inclusion , and tells his congregation ' the truth ' is not limited to the bible , but can be found in all creation - even other religions
this message has been controversial , however , and many of his former followers have abandoned him
the two brothers set up the cathedral of the holy spirit at chapel hill with donnie 's wife clariece in 1960 , creating one of the first churches to welcome people of all colours heir : d.e. , the family 's only son , pictured leading a service , was always intended to take over the church , but became disillusioned with the institution when he discovered the truth about his parentage it is likely this particular philosophy would have horrified his uncle , a tyrannical figure who led the cathedral of the holy spirit from its inception in 1960
set up with his brother donnie and his wife clariece , holy spirit was one of the first churches to accept both african americans and whites worshipping together , and at one point was attracting 100 new members a week
it would grow to be the fourth largest church in america , recognised by then - president george bush for its volunteering work in 1982
by 1991 , the church had 12,000 members , and a cathedral with a 245 - foot steeple
its pastors had acted like minor celebrities , travelling by private jet , charging as much as $ 7,500 per appearance and collecting their own ' groupies ' , who would reportedly get them dressed and even wipe the sweat from their faces
and d.e. paulk , as the only boy born to either of the brothers , was set to inherit it all - a fact which had been impressed on him from the age of nine
fall from grace : the church , which grew to 12,000 members , was rocked by a series of sex scandals in the early nineties , causing many of its members to lose their faith secrets : earl would also turn out to be d.e. paulk 's father - a fact the tyranical pastor would continue to deny but the church began to implode : earl - now ' archbishop earl ' - was implicated in a series of sex scandals , some of which were settled out of court
the archbishop was also accused of slurring a congregant as a lesbian , threatening another with a .38 gun , and pretending never to watch television while hiding one in his cupboard
he could be so ruthless that his secretary , ladonna diaz , d.e. paulk 's sister , would often leave his office crying
then , in 2007 , it was revealed d.e. paulk 's father was not donnie , 76 , but earl
clariece , who had tried to hide her secret for more than three decades , claimed that ' it was no more than insemination '
nonetheless , this would mark a turning point for d.e. pain : after earl 's death in 2009 , d.e.went through a great deal of soul - searching and decided to open his own church that recognised all faiths earl died in 2009 aged 81 , and d.e. paulk sold the cathedral for $ 17.5million shortly afterwards
three years later , d.e. paulk opened a new , ' radically inclusive ' church , which bills itself as ' the trendiest , friendliest , most radically inclusive worshipping experience in atlanta '
but it horrified many of d.e. paulk 's conservative christian followers
d.e. paulk told cnn : ' they can tolerate all the sexual scandals and the lawsuits , but when you invite a muslim or a gay person to church , that 's the scandal you leave for ? ' the church , which has 700 members , is going from strength to strength .