television producer shonda rhimes hit out at an article posted on deadline which claimed television has become too diverse this season and the ' trend ' may not last
the article , by nellie andreeva , published tuesday is titled ' the year of ethnic castings – about time or too much of good thing ? ' nellie andreeva wrote that though ethnic diversity in television is long overdue , ' the pendulum might have swung a bit too far in the opposite direction
' the article quickly drew a wave of criticism on twitter with shonda rhimes , 45 , leading the charge
she tweeted : ' 1st reaction : : hell no. lem me take off my earrings , somebody hold my purse ! 2nd reaction : article is so ignorant i ca n't even be bothered
she went on to say that ' grossly underserved ' african - american actors are being compensated , but said the growth in ethnic roles may have ' reached its peak
' additionally , she noted that other ' hot commodities ' are contributing to the trend , including ' occasional foreigners with that ' sparkle
'' just hours after the article was posted tuesday evening , many twitter users blasted the article causing deadline to trend for hours , the wrap reports
rhimes , creator of ' grey 's anatomy , ' ' scandal , ' and ' how to get away with murder , ' retweeted a few critical tweets about the article from the new york times ' emily nussbaum , dave itzkoff , and the huffington post 's mo ryan many celebrities , television industry journalists , and twitter users criticized the article and even created the hashtag # deadlineheadlines with offensive headlines they believe the publication would use
retweeters of shonda rhimes ' post include actress garcelle beauvais , helena andrews , author and washington post journalist , ava duvernay , the director of ' selma , ' and more than 1,000 others
rhimes , creator of ' grey 's anatomy , ' ' scandal , ' and ' how to get away with murder , ' retweeted a few critical tweets about the article from the new york times ' emily nussbaum , dave itzkoff , and the huffington post 's mo ryan
neither deadline nor nellie andreeva have publicly commented on the incident
deadline : in the article , by nellie andreeva , published tuesday she wrote that though ethnic diversity in television is long overdue , ' the pendulum might have swung a bit too far in the opposite direction
' ' really ? ' eric goldman , executive editor at ign , tweeted ' deadline , did you seriously post an article exhibiting concern that perhaps too many non-white actors are getting cast in tv series ? really ? cray : here , ' scandal 's ' joshua malina ( who plays david rosen ) tweeted ' deadline be cray
' nervous : the huffington post 's mo ryan tweeted ' shorter version of that awful deadline story : hey , people of color , you got a few shows ! now step off , you 're making some agents nervous
' dear deadline : journalist and immigrant activist jose vargas called the premise of the article ' misleading ' and ' irresponsible ' headline : actress jerrika hinton tweeted ' headline : white people no longer automatically considered default casting choice , makes me nervous ' facepalm : mo ryan tweeted a photo of multiple ' deadline article , you 've left me no choice
i must go full facepalm , from all of star trek ! happy now ? ! ' too diverse ? : technologist danny sullivan tweeted saying ' wtf , tv is now too diverse ? not ! apparently : rupert myers , writer for the guardian , tweeted ' black actors , spoiling everything for white actors since 2015 , apparently ' @ deadline : imran siddiquee , a writer with the atlantic , tweeted ' living amidst white supremacy , we should actually be asking ' how does this tv show justify the choice to have a white lead ? @ deadline '