no good deed goes unpunished as exemplified by the alleged beating to death of an elderly man on wednesday by three people he 'd helped in the past
cincinnati man engel , 73 , was found dead at his st. bernard home with multiple blows to his head and his body
police say that suspects james t. kirby jr. 22 , mario demarcus lewis , 26 , broke into engels home in attempt to burglarize it on saturday night as chasidy nicole brewer , 20 , acted as a lookout across the street
that 's when the alleged beating occurred
james t. kirby jr. allegedly assaulted him from the top of the stairs and into the kitchen
james t. kirby jr. has been charged with aggravated burglary , aggravated murder and tampering with evidence
all three suspects have been arrested before and are being held at hamilton county jail where bond was set at $ 1.25 million for each of them
cincinnati.com reports that the suspects were identified on saturday night when police saw them attempting to destroy evidence at st. mary ’s cemetery
murdered : engel was discovered beaten to death in his home on sunday and was known to help his friends and neighbors just because they needed it three days before engel 's death , james t. kirby jr. allegedly broke into the home and took cash
a neighbor called police on sunday after they saw the basement window broken and they did n't hear from engel
when police arrived , he was dead
engel worked for the village 's service department for over 30 years
he has a son , a daughter , and two grandchildren
neighbors told wcpo that englel was the kind of man who would help other people in need
they said the killing was a chilling occurrence for the neighborhood
the scene : the three suspects allegedly broke into engel 's home several times and on saturday night beat him to death when he discovered their antics ' his family has been in st. bernard for years
i think he was born and raised in st. bernard , ' said nancy evans
yep , it 's unreal
' ' it ai n't no good
that means we got to watch this neighborhood better , ' said darryl , another neighbor
' i 'll definitely make it my business to get out my dogs more and watch
' engel was known for being blunt but always helping someone in need
he 's a rough guy
his friends were his friends and he had a kind heart trying to help people , ' said bill ungruhe of the st. bernard police
police made an announcement to village residents saying that the alleged attackers knew their victim and that it was not a random occurrence and that they should not be worried for their lives .