need some inspiration deciding who to back at cheltenham festival ? sportsmail 's marcus townend and peter scudamore reveal their favourites while sky sports presenter alex hammond and other celebrities have also shared their tips for the cheltenham festival
peter scudamore ptit zig ( jlt novices ’ jlt novices ' chase , 1.30 ) i can forgive him his fall on his last run at ascot — it was a typical novice mistake
but his form otherwise looks pretty strong and he can also boast some top quality grade one - winning hurdle form
he is taken to fend off the strong irish threat led by apache stronghold and valseur lido
best odds : 7 - 2 ptit zig , pictured at the christmas meeting at ascot , is peter scudamore 's tip for the jlt novices ' chase don cossack ( ryanair chase , 2.40 ) this gelding , trained by elliott ( below ) , looks a much more complete racehorse this season and has won all his four races since being beaten by ap mccoy ’s gold cup hope carlingford lough at the punchestown festival in april
he fell at this meeting last year but i would not hold that against him
plus trainer elliott already has a winner on the board with cause of causes on the first day
best odds : 3 - 1 un temps pour tout ( ladbrokes world hurdle , 3.20 ) an expensive recruit from france who has not yet quite reached the heights expected of him
he did , however , run a very promising first race of the season when third to thursday ’s opponent saphir du rheu in the cleeve hurdle in january
that was his first run since may so he is entitled to improve significantly and play a big part in a very open race
confidence will be increased in his chance now that trainer david pipe has had a winner at the meeting
best odds : 12 - 1 buywise ( brown advisory & merriebell stable plate , 4.0 ) this evan williams - trained eight - year - old was an easy five length winner at ffos las on his last run and looks a horse who still has a little in hand with the handicapper
best odds : 7 - 1 buywise was an easy five length winner at ffos las and looks to have a little in hand with the handicapper marcus townend trustan times ( pertemps hurdle , 2.05 ) sybarite looks a good option here but , at even longer odds , this tim easterby - trained stayer looks worth a punt
he was fourth in the race 12 months ago , beaten less than half a length in a blanket finish , and he races off a marginally lower handicap mark this afternoon
his stable is in decent form with a couple of winners in its last six runners
best odds : 25 - 1 eduard ( ryanair chase , 2.40 ) lacks a little match practice for such a hotly - contested event as this but there is no doubt the nicky richards - trained gelding possesses talent
he would probably have beaten wishfull thinking , a rival again on thursday , in the peterborough chase at huntingdon last time but for an error at the final fence
best odds : 16 - 1 cole harden ( ladbrokes world hurdle , 3.20 ) has failed to win since his first race of the season at wetherby at the start of november and could be regarded as disappointing
but the positives are that his stable has emerged from a quiet spell and he has had a breathing operation since being beaten behind saphir du rheu here in january
will be staying on better than most at the finish
best odds : 16 - 1 cole harden has failed to win since his first race of the season at wetherby at the start of november sky sports ' sky sports presenter alex hammond is backing saphir du rheu and the celebs ... here 's who the celebs are backing in thursday ’s ladbrokes world hurdle
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
. alex hammond - sky sports news hq presenter saphir du rheu it should be an open race this year but this is a horse that is well regarded
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
channel 4 racing presenter zarkandar he is a better horse than last season and they will have learned a lot more how to ride him after his defeat last time out
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
tanya stevenson - channel 4 racing presenter monksland i can see the race panning out perfectly for jockey paul carberry
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
john parrott - snooker professional zarkandar i think he will win as he ’ll be ridden to pounce late
angus loughran-betting pundit monksland you need a true stayer to win this race and he is definitely that
cornelius lysaght-radio 5 live racing correspondent seeyouatmidnight a useful horse who should run well at a decent price .