the world 's greatest private collection of coins is expected to sell for $ 220million in a record - breaking series of seven auctions at sotherby 's and stack 's bowers galleries
gathered over more than 30 years by texas property developer a. mack pogue and his son , d. brent pogue , the collection contains coins from the early years of the u.s. republic , from 1792 to the 1830s
these are the most sought - after u.s. coins in existence , as the crude production techniques of the period meant that the coins were fragile , making surviving high - quality examples are extremely rare
pictured heads ( left ) and tails ( right ) intricate : an 1804 silver dollar piece , pictured heads ( left ) and tails ( right ) , the most famous u.s. coin in the world , is worth $ 8 to $ 10million exquisite : a rare 1796 quarter dollar coin , shown heads ( left ) and tails ( right ) , is expected to fetch up to $ 1million valuable : this 1797 half dollar coin is worth up to $ 1.75million
pictured heads ( left ) and tails ( right ) gathered over more than 30 years by texas property developer a. mack pogue and his son , d. brent , this is considered the most valuable collection of federal u.s. coins dating from the 1790s to the late 1830s in private hands
an 1822 eagle five - dollar gold piece , one of only three known to exist , and an silver dollar dubbed the ' king of american coins ' are expected to be among the top lots when the collection is sold in a series of auctions in new york beginning in may and continuing into 2017
' these two coins in particular , we think , have a possibility of being up around that $ 10 million mark , ' said brian kendrella , the president of stack 's bowers galleries
the rare coin and currency auctioneer , which is handling the sales with sotheby 's , believes the coins could shatter the $ 10 million record set in 2013 for a 1794 silver dollar
the mack pogue collection includes two examples of the coveted 1804 silver dollar , considered to be the most famous coin in u.s. , which is known as ' the pinnacle of coin collecting '
one of these is valued at $ 9.8million ( £ 6.7million )
notably , it was presented to the sultan of muscat in 1835
d. brent pogue , from dallas , texas , has now decided to ' cash in his cash ' by auctioning off more than 650 individual coins at a number of sotheby 's and stack 's bowers galleries sales over the next two years
experts expect the collection to sell for almost $ 220million ( £ 150million ) , more than any other series of rare coins
on friday , sotheby 's showed off the jaw - dropping collection at its saleroom in new bond street , london
david redden , sotheby 's vice chairman , said : ' to have the world 's most valuable private coin collection available for viewing and sale in our galleries is a huge privilege and a great responsibility
' sotheby have worked fruitfully together in the past , notably on the sales of the 1933 gold double eagle for $ 7.6 million and the dallas bank collection
' the d. brent pogue collection will be a thrilling addition to that auction history
' a highlight of the collection is a $ 5 gold piece , known as the 1822 gold eagle , which is thought to be one of three in existence , and the only one in private hands
considered the most desirable u.s. gold coin outside of public collections , it is expected to sell for around $ 8.8million ( £ 6 million )
the 1797 half dollar , considered the most beautiful and best - preserved example of a design used for only two years , is the most valuable half dollar in existence
it is anticipated to sell for $ 1.5million ( £ 1million )
and the 1808 quarter eagle , which is a $ 2.50 coin , is also expected to sell for around $ 1.5million ( £ 1million ) , which is 500,000 times its face value.the coin was previously owned by the maryland banker louis e. eliasberg , sr , and the early 20th century beer magnate virgil m. brand , according to catholic online
eagle coins have been widely collected over the years by notable figures including the banker j.p. morgan
handle with care : a sotheby 's employee holds a selection of u.s. coins including a 1822 eagle , or five dollar gold piece , and an 1804 silver dollar , both estimated to be worth between $ 8 and $ 10 million
the coins are part of the most valuable collection in the world , that is being sold in a series of auctions ending in may 2017 precious : this 1804 silver dollar , left and right , is estimated to be worth between $ 8 and $ 10million
d. brent pogue , who assembled the collection with his father , described selling his collection as ' bittersweet ' most of the coins were made during a time when small mintages and crude production facilities at the philadelphia mint made the survival of any high - quality coins unlikely
each steel die used to strike coins in the early 1800s was painstakingly produced by hand , creating variations that are prized by collectors
the first sale , by sotheby and stack 's bowers galleries , will be on 19 may and there will be six further auctions with the final sale in may 2017
d. brent pogue , who assembled the collection with the help of his property developer father , described the sale as ' bittersweet '
he said : ' i feel now is the time to pass the torch to a new generation of custodians , who can appreciate the legacy of these great u.s. coins
' these coins conjure up many fond memories , and i hope the new owners will enjoy them as much as i have
' coin sales are driven by the economy , but brian kendrella , the president of stack 's bowers galleries , said investors and collectors are also lured by the rarity , uniqueness , condition and historical significance of coins
' they are artefacts that speak to what was going on in the u.s. at the time these coins were made , ' he said
' that 's one of the main draws
' perfection : this 1795 eagle ten dollar gold piece ( left and right ) is one of the most perfectly preserved 18th century u.s. gold coins in the world in awe : a sotheby 's employee holds an u.s. 1804 silver dollar , estimated to be worth between $ 8 and $ 10million , which is part of the famous brent pogue coin collection , the most valuable private collection of coins in the world , that is currently being auctioned off in sections with a dozen coins selling for $ 1 million or more in 2014 , and the first gold coin struck for the u.s. fetching $ 4.5 million , the nonprofit professional numismatists guild estimates the overall u.s. rare coin market to be worth about $ 5 billion
walter husak , a retired aerospace entrepreneur based in california , knows just how lucrative it can be
a collection of 301 rare penny coins dating from 1793 to 1814 , which he gathered over more than 13 years , sold in 2008 for $ 10.7 million - about double what he invested in it
' i never thought it would go up that much , ' he said
' there are a lot of people getting involved in coins
' stuppler , secretary of the professional numismatists guild , has seen plenty of changes in his 52 years in the coin business
he says that the market has been booming in recent years
' it is a combination of the economy coming back , ' he said , ' and the fact that interest rates are very low
' the internet , he said , also has been ' a tremendous , tremendous source of new buyers and sellers of coins that we did n't have 20 years ago
' demand for rare , investment - quality coins , graded and certified by the guild and the florida - based numismatic guaranty corporation , is high and supply is low
' the rarities do the best , particularly gold and silver coins , ' said stuppler
' enticing : two stars of the collection
the1822 five dollar gold piece ( left ) , the only example in private hands , is anticipated to sell for up to $ 10million the 1804 silver dollar ( right ) , originally presented to the sultan of muscat in 1835 , is anticipated to fetch up to $ 10million