it seemed like a great idea at the time
but when actor turner took to twitter for a bbc # askpoldark q&a last night , polite questions were the last thing on fans ' minds
instead , the 31 - year - old irish actor was deluged with queries that ranged from the bizarre to the thoroughly indecent
marriage proposals also proved popular with poldark fans taking part in the twitter q&a , which took place immediately after the fourth episode of the drama aired , as did requests for an uptick in shirtless scenes
' how do you ever stop looking in the mirror ? ' asked a twitter user called sammypie
' like most women ( and quite a few men ) i cant think of anything sensible to # askpoldark once turner takes his shirt off
sorry , ' wrote one hyperventilating fan
another , named sarah hook , asked : ' # askpoldark why was i never offered the position of painting semi nude actors when i had my careers talk at school ? ! ' turner , although slow to respond to marriage proposals , gamely attempted to answer many of the more sensible questions offered up by fans , including one about his new - found fame
swooning : a fan named jane williams spoke for many when she shared her appreciation of shirtless scenes compliments : many of the questions offered up by fans focused on turner 's looks nice work ! another wished that her careers ' advice had included tips on becoming a make - up artist asked whether he knew that a twitter account dedicated to his hair existed , the irishman answered : ' i am aware , yeah ! it ’s pretty hilarious ! ' not everyone was happy with his answers , however , with one fan complaining that turner took longer to answer than his character did to find copper - a reference to the ongoing plot line about poldark 's mining activities
' did he answer any of the questions or has he been removed to some sort of high security location for his own protection ? # askpoldark ' , wrote another fan named katy moran afterwards
most , however , contented themselves with firing questions on everything from gardening to the pedestrianisation of norwich at the actor
gardening : another popular topic with fans was gardening - in particular the scything of lawns left field : others offered up some more unusual questions about the election and norwich city centre too slow : others complained about the actor 's slowness to answer questions among the more amusing was a question from a twitter user named linda who asked the actor whether he might be interested in a spot of gardening
' my mower has packed up , ' she wrote
' would you come round and scythe my lawn please ? # askpoldark ' another , david hussey , offered up a tongue - in - cheek query that read : ' askpoldark thinking of ditching the wife , running off with a red - haired wench and opening a copper mine
any tips or pilchard recipes ? ' most entertaining of all was a fan who quizzed turner on his plans for life post-poldark
' would you consider presenting top gear ? ' asked adele mitchell
turner chose not to answer that one
pin up : another asked how turner 's new - found pin - up status was working out for him clarkson 's replacement ? one hopeful fan asked turner to consider a presenting career popular : the cornish drama has proved one of the bbc 's most successful dramas of 2015 so far