extraordinary bugged calls between separatists that suggest flight mh17 was shot down by a russian - made missile over ukraine were revealed today by investigators
the intercepted dialogue strongly suggests a russian military crew was accompanying a buk missile smuggled into eastern ukraine shortly before the boeing 777 was shot out the sky
it also indicates the weapons system was smuggled back over the border to russian afterwards
the disclosures support an earlier mailonline story highlighting the use of a volvo truck to transport the buk
the revelations came as the dutch - led joint investigation team ( jit ) probing the malaysia airlines crash called for witnesses ' who can tell more about the transport , crew and launch of a buk rocket in the area in the days before and after the crash , ' it said
their video appeal , carrying images of the buk weapon system on a flatbed truck and audio recordings of the intercepted telephone conversations , was being aired on television and radio and distributed on websites and social media
dutch prosecutors released a video appeal for witnesses in eastern ukraine who may have seen a russian - made buk rocket ( pictured , above , on a volvo truck ) being fired at malaysia airlines flight mh17 , saying this was the ' leading scenario ' in their investigation into the disaster last year which killed 298 people on board the video appeal , carrying images of the buk weapon system on a flatbed truck and recordings of bugged telephone conversations , was being aired on television and distributed on websites and social media all 298 people on board the malaysia airlines jet - the majority of them dutch - died when it was shot down over war - torn eastern ukraine last year
the call for witnesses confirms that investigators are taking seriously the scenario that the boeing 777 was shot out of the sky by a russian - made buk missile fired from an area of donetsk region controlled by pro-moscow separatists
moscow has strongly denied these allegations
investigators say it is ' too early to draw conclusions on the disaster ' , but their appeal for witnesses could not be clearer
it was coupled with the release of an intercepted phone call ' between two separatists on july 17th at 9.08am in which they have discussed the transportation of buk to donetsk
' apparently , the conversation reveals that the buk was accompanied by a crew '
the dutch - led joint investigation team probing the crash called for witnesses ' who can tell more about the transport , crew and launch of a buk rocket in the area in the days before and after the crash , ' it said the disclosures support an earlier mailonline story highlighting the use of a volvo truck to transport the buk the full transcript of the call is as follows : a - listening to you , buryatik ( probably a nickname suggesting the man can be from buryatia republic in siberia ) b - hello ! a - yes b - and where should we unload this beauty ? a - which one ? this one ? b - yes , yes , the one i have brought
i am already in donetsk
a - is it what i am thinking about ? the one called 'm ' ? b - yes a - ' pm ' ? b - yes , yes , yes
a - oh , bm , yes , yes , yes
b - buk a - i understand b-buk , buk
a - so , so , so , and is it on whatsit , a truck ? b - yes , it 's on whatsit ... it need to be unloaded somewhere in order to hide it
a - is it with a crew ? b - yes with a crew
a - no need to hide it anywhere , it will go right there
you understand where to ? b - i understand
well , they need a bit of time to have a look at it
a - who is they ? b - hello , hello ! a - are you there ? cripes
wait , wait , librarian
investigators say it is ' too early to draw conclusions ' , but their appeal for witnesses could not be clearer intercepted phone calls also indicate the missile was smuggled back over the border to russian afterwards the appeal from the investigators stated : ' if you saw this transport in donetsk or have any information regarding the crew members , or their uniform , please contact us
' from donetsk the buk was transported to snizhne , passing through makiivka , zuhres and torez
' the jit would like to speak with witnesses who have seen this transport or who might have other information that can help the investigation
' around midday , the buk was seen in snizhne , heading south
the buk had been unloaded off the volvo truck and was driving by itself
' the jit is looking for witnesses who saw the buk and the crew on 17 july between 12.00 pm and 4.20 pm ' at 4.20 pm near hrabove , the mh17 crashed which was carrying 298 civilian passengers
' the jit is looking for witnesses who have seen any of the following events including transport of the buk , the launch of the buk missile , the shooting down of the flight mh17 and those who can identify those who are responsible for this crime
' even small pieces of information could assist us in our investigation
' crash investigator survey the wreckage in july last year
all 298 people on board the malaysia airlines jet - the majority of them dutch - died when it was shot down over war - torn eastern ukraine last year
another intercepted call between two separatists which took place on 17 july 2014 at 9.32 pm indicated that the buk is located at a checkpoint where it was expected and one of the crew members has been left behind
the transcript reads : a - yes ! b - hello , commander
have you already left , yes ? a - me ? yes , i have left for my task , you - for yours
b - i got it
are you within that very region or not ? a - no , i am not within that region
i am to the other direction
b - ( inaudible ) - a fighter has got lost there from this one ... ( inaudible ) from this missile launcher ... he has f * * * ed his crew
a - what a launcher ? b - from buk
a - from buk ? b - yes
a - and where is he , f * * * him ? b - here he is , standing at the checkpoint
a - take him and bring in here , f * * *
i 'll be waiting for him in snizhne near the petrol station
the investigators say ' from the conversation we can conclude that one crew member was forgotten at this checkpoint ' and appeal for details of the location of the checkpoint or any information about the missing crew member
' in the early morning of the 18th of july , around 5 am the volvo truck transporting the buk was seen in lugansk heading in the direction of krasnodon \ sjeverne
' have you seen the transport of this buk in the morning of july 18th ? please contact the jit
' we have recorded and analysed the following intercepted telephone call between two separatists which took place on 18 july at 8am
' it indicates that missile launching system buk has left ukraine and crossed the border to russian
' frosty : tony abbott ( left ) , the prime minister of australia , which lost 38 people on mh17 , is seen with russian president vladimir putin , who has been accused of supporting rebels in ukraine this third call was transcribed as follows : b - good morning ! a - good morning ... yesterday was , f * * * , i have nothing to say
b - what 's up ? a - where is , whatsit ... err ... yesterday ... why did your ...
comrade ... returned ... some incomprehensive movements ... what was going on yesterday ? you tell me
b - they brought the car till crossroad , left it there , the lads went on themselves
b - so , the car has gone in the correct direction and arrived successfully
b - there were strange incoming calls which began suddenly , from 10 persons
a - who are those 10 persons ? b-err , some people started calling his phone number , introducing themselves ... first one , then second , then third , then forth ... he told that he had pissed off ... later ... then he began to call
a - so ? b - he introduced himself
a - so he switched off his phone , f * * *
and we do n't know at all where is the car
b - the car is in russian
a - and yesterday f * * * , we do n't know , waiting here at night ... twenty minutes later the call resumed
b - yes ! a - ... you should take ... and come to my place , there is no.
. car , no one saw it
that one which had gone to meet it , returned back without the car , you know what i mean ... of a mess
where ? whom ? which way did he bring it ? ... disaster , you know
b - and what about librarian ? this is the group of people who transported it a - well b - on the lowboy ... i have just made a contact with them , they are all in russian
they will bring a new vehicle from russian
a - aha , err
. did he give it to librarian ? b - for sure ! a - ok , i understand
' the jit would like to speak with witnesses who have seen the whereabouts of the buk missile system and the volvo truck at the moment when it crossed russian - ukraine border
' to sum up , we are looking for people who saw the buk system on the 17th or 18th of july 2014 on the route shown here at the territories of donetsk and lugansk regions
' the information in this presentation indicates one of the main scenarios of the mh17 crash the jit is examining now
the jit is putting great effort in finding the truth about the cause of the crash of mh17
' you can find our contact details on www.jitmh17.com
here you can also upload footage and pictures
' the statement was issued by prosecutors in dutch .