world cup winners germany eased past hosts georgia 2 - 0 in their euro 2016 qualifier on sunday with two goals in five minutes from marco reus and thomas muller enough to get their group d campaign back on track
marco reus scored after 39 minutes and thomas muller soon doubled their lead as the germans , who had an erratic start to qualifiers last year and lost in poland , were never threatened by their weaker opponents
the win lifted germany to 10 points from five games , as many as leaders poland , who take on ireland later on sunday
scotland are also on 10
marco reus ( right ) fires home to give germany the lead in their euro 2016 qualifying match with georgia germany xi : manuel neuer ; hector , hummels , rudy boateng ; bastian schweinsteiger , kroos ; marco reus , mesut ozil , gotze ( podolski - 86 ) ; thomas muller ( schã¼rrle - 86 ) subs not used : s. mustafi , b. hã¶wedes , s. khedira , r. zieler , c. kramer , r. weidenfeller , m. kruse , gã¼ndogan goals : marco reus 39 , thomas muller 44 booked : schweinsteiger georgia xi : giorgi loria ; lobjanidze , kverkveliya , kashia , amisulashvili ( dvali - 4 ) , navalovski ; makharadze ( kenia - 63 ) , kanvana ; okriashvili ( chanturia - 46 ) , kobakhidze ; mchedlidze subs not used : m. daushvili , v. kazaishvili , b. tskhadadze , l. kakubava , l. totadze , m. alavidze , m. vatsadz , n. dzalamidze , n. revishvili booked : makharadze , kankava , chanturia ' a look at the table before the game was enough to see the urgency of the situation , ' germany coach loew told reporters
' we played a dynamic game , we then controlled it in the second half but did not have the same drive towards goal
' loew said their conversion rate would need to improve after again spurning several good chances and hitting the woodwork twice
' we again missed some good chances
we had good combinations but failed to score a third or fourth goal
' georgia have had a tough start in group d , recording four defeats and a win in gibraltar to stay on three points
it did not take long for germany , with several world cup winners back in the squad including captain bastian schweinsteiger , to threaten with marco reus ' powerful drive palmed on to the crossbar by keeper giorgi loria after five minutes
with coach loew reverting to a four - man defence from a three - player experiment against australia in a friendly on wednesday , the germans were in and around their opponents ' box for most of the first half
thomas muller slots home the second for germany as they comfortably dispatched of georgia thomas muller fired at goal from a corner only to see the ball fly just wide and mesut ozil missed another big chance as the visitors had the hosts firmly on the backfoot
marco reus did better in the 39th when mario gotze charged into the box and was lucky to scramble the ball to the winger , who drilled home for his second goal this week , after also scoring in their 2 - 2 draw against australia
thomas muller then fired in another on the stroke of halftime to firmly put them in the driving seat
new georgia coach kakhaber tskhadadze added a forward after the break but it was marco reus who came close again , rattling the bar for a second time on the hour with another powerful shot
' we are not yet fully on track and still have to improve , ' said germany goalkeeper manuel neuer
' but there is sufficient time and i am very confident
' mario gotze ( right ) fires just wide of the georgia goal as germany dominated the game throughout