katy has launched an official ' left shark ' costume inspired by one of the backing dancers from her super bowl halftime show , who became an overnight internet sensation when he appeared to forget his dance moves live on air
the 30 - year - old singer , who was joined by backing dancers dressed as surfboards , palm trees and beach balls , as well as the now - infamous shark duo , for her rendition of california girls and teenage dream at the nfl final in february , tweeted the news to her delighted followers on monday evening , advising them to head to her online store and pick up one of the $ 129.99 onesies
and while many of her fans were thrilled to see that the left shark 's five minutes of fame have been extended , others were horrified by the high price tag attached to the novelty loungewear design
' i ca n't even afford to go out with my friend let alone $ 129 onesies ! ! ! ! stop taunting me ! ! ! ! ! ! ' one person wrote in response to katy 's tweet
another added : ' it 's too expensive , i will buy fake ones
' diy alternative : katy advised her fans that they no longer need to attempt to make their own left shark onesies at home , using this image as an example attention ! the unconditional singer peaked her fans ' interest when she posted this tweet , just minutes before announcing the launch of the left shark onesie but the news has come as a welcome surprise to many people , who admitted that they would be more than willing to shell out the money needed to lay their hands on one of the onesies
' my dream has come true cause i suck at diy ! ! ! ' one person wrote , clearly overjoyed that they would not need to create their own left shark costume at home
' but i 'm good at spending money
ordering it now ! ! ' prior to the launch of katy 's official left shark merchandise line , a number of unofficial products have been made available by eager entrepreneurs hoping to cash in on the left shark 's seemingly unwavering popularity
last month , katy 's attorneys served an artist who was selling small figurines of the globally - famous dancing shark , who was played by professional dancer bryan gaw , online with a cease and desist letter , insisting that he remove the products from the website on which they were being sold
prior to their warning , sosa , 31 , had been selling up to 15 of the $ 24.99 three - inch sharks , which were made using a 3d printer , per day via online marketplace shapeways.com
wardrobe update : as well as the onesie , katy is also selling this left shark t - shirt for $ 25 shake your fin : many fans watching the halftime performance felt that the sharks had stolen the show center stage : during the performance , the singer was also joined by dancing beach balls , surfboards and palm trees however , less than 36 hours after his statues became available , shapeways officials notified mr sosa of a cease - and - desist letter from perry 's los angeles - based attorneys who demanded the shark 's removal from the site
' they said they were pulling the design because they did n't want to deal with lawyers , ' mr sosa said , adding that the company promptly cancelled his orders and refunded his customers
the letter from attorney steve plinio said katy is the ' owner of the intellectual property depicted or embodied in connection with the shark images and costumes ' portrayed during the halftime show
the letter said the failure to comply with the demands outlined ' will be viewed by the courts as willful infringement '
sosa said he did n't think a halftime show prop would be copyrighted
he added that his product did n't mention katy or claim that it was associated with her .