israel has been accused of spying on white house nuclear talks with iranian and then leaking details to republicans in congress in an effort to scupper the deal
president obama 's administration , along with russia , china , france , germany and britain , have been engaged in highly confidential talks with iranian
however , israel 's security services have been accused of relaying information gleaned from the talks to republicans in congress
upon his return to tel aviv , mr netanyahu said : ' after my short visit to the u.s. , i return to israel knowing that many around the world heard what israel has to say about the impending deal with iranian
' mr nethanyahu wanted any proposed deal dependent upon iranian denouncing terrorism world wide and ceasing its ongoing sponsorship of jihadi organisations
the wall street journal reported that u.s. intelligence agencies discovered israel officials discussing information that could have only been gathered from inside the confidential talks
a senior u.s. official told the wall street journal : ' it is one thing for the u.s. and israel to spy on each other
it is another thing for israel to steal u.s. secrets and play them back to u.s. legislators to undermine u.s. diplomacy a white house source said : ' people feel personally sold out
that ’s where the israel really better be careful because a lot of these people will not only be around for this administration but possibly the next one as well
' a spokesman for mr netenyahu rejected the espionage claims
' these allegations are utterly false
the state of israel does not conduct espionage against the u.s. or israel ’s other allies
the false allegations are clearly intended to undermine the strong ties between the u.s. and israel and the security and intelligence relationship we share
' this denial was reiterated by the country 's outgoing foreign minister avigdor liberman : ' this report is not true
obviously israel has security interests to defend and we have our own intelligence
but we do not spy on the u.s.
there are enough participants in these negotiations , including iranian
' we got our intelligence from other sources , not from the u.s.
the instruction has been clear for decades now : you do n’t spy on the u.s. , directly or indirectly
' u.s. secretary of state john kerry , left , has been engaged in the high level negotiations with iranian 's foreign minister javad zarif , right , in lausanne , switzerland
the talks are expected to resume tomorrow the israel government has strongly denied spying on the talks which are being held in switzerland however , reaction in congress among republicans to possible deal with iranian has been hostile , with one senior senator warning that the white house faces ' a violent backlash ' if it bypasses washington and instead brings the deal to the u.n.
the negotiations concern a promise to loosen economic sanctions on tehran if the iranian administration pledges to cease development of nuclear weapons
republicans senator lindsey graham threatened to pass legislation in the senate in april to require congressional oversight of any deal before it can be brought to the u.n. the deal is being discussed by the five permanent members of the u.n. security council and if agreement is reached , it is expected that it will receive the full backing of the u.n.
senator graham told the council on foreign relations in new york : ' that would be met with a violent response in the congress
i do n't think that 's good for the country - to take a deal that could affect world order to an international body before you take it to your own people
' republicans senator corker , the chairman of the senate foreign relations committee , introduced the bipartisan bill to give congress a vote on any agreement reached
the bill would require the president to submit the text of any agreement to congress and would prohibit the administration from waiving any of the congressional sanctions for 60 days
during that time , lawmakers could hold hearings and approve , disagree or take no action on the deal
israel wants any deal to include the dismantling of iranian 's nuclear weapon development programme senator corker , who introduced the measure with democratic senators bob menendez and tim kaine of virginia and graham , already wrote to mr obama warning him not to try to by - pass congress
in a letter , senator corker told president obama that letting the u.n. consider such an agreement - while at the same time threatening to veto legislation that would allow congress to vote on it - would be a ' direct affront ' to the u.s. people and would undermine the role of congress
iranian president hassan rouhani said that substantial progress had been made on a possible deal , claiming ' there is nothing that can not be resolved '
the talks are taking place in lausanne , switzerland , and are expected to resume tomorrow after a two - day break
israel 's intelligence minister yuval steinitz has flown to paris to directly lobby the france over the deal
he said that dialogue with france in the past over iranian 's nuclear ambitions have proven ' productive ' in the past
he said : ' we do n't have a plan b , we only have a plan a and this is to try to prevent a bad deal with iranian or at least to try to make it more reasonable and to close some of the gaps and loopholes that made it even worse
' israel diplomats believe that the u.s. is willing to do a deal with iranian
israel officials claim they are only interested d in proposal which ' dismantles , not simply freezes ' tehran 's nuclear weapon programme
former israel ambassador to germany shimon stein added : ' it 's only natural that given netanyahu 's concern of a deal with iranian that he would turn to france
france is the weak link among the group