a judge has ended brown 's felony probation in an assault case over his 2009 attack on pop singer rihanna
superior court judge james r brandlin said friday that the r&b singer had completed the terms of his sentence , which included community labor , domestic violence counseling and rehab
the relief was palpable on the face of the singer , who turned up in court with purple hair wearing a suit jacket over a t - shirt
the attack destroyed brown 's squeaky clean image and he has in recent years struggled to end the case
brown spent two - and - a - half months in jail after he was arrested for hitting a man outside a washington hotel in october 2013
rihanna and brown rekindled their relationship after a restraining order in the case was lifted , but have since broken up
satisfied : superior court judge james r brandlin decreed the 25 - year - old had completed the terms of his sentence , which included community labor , domestic violence counseling and rehab casual : the singer arrived in court with purple hair , wearing a suit jacket but skipping the shirt or tie on again : brown and rihanna , seen here at the 2013 grammys , had rekindled their relationship for a time despite the assault four years earlier that left her face battered and cut the judge 's decision came as a surprise to many , who believed he was actually going to revoke brown 's probation and throw him back in jail after a damning report by the probation department
tmz had reported right before the hearing that his probation officer had pulled a u-turn and was supplying the court with a favourable report , claiming that it was ' all but certain ' his the judge would reinstated
but brown 's full release seemed to catch everybody off guard
his probation had been revoked in january after officials cited a number of red flags he had recently raised
while he was n't a suspect in either , brown was present at two recent shooting incidents ; one in san jose , the other in hollywood in which rap mogul suge knight was shot
shock : the decision came as a surprise to many , who expected at the very least that the singer 's probation would be reinstated turnabout : some analysts expected brown would actually be imprisoned for his probation violations in the most recent incident , brown was actually performing on stage at a nightclub in the early hours of january 11 when a number of shots were fired , causing widespread panic
five people were wounded , but the singer escaped uninjured
his appearance in san jose was in itself a violation of his probation , since he is supposed to get permission before he leaves la county
the second shooting indecent occurred at 10ak nightclub in august at a pre-mtv video music awards party hosted by brown , where three people were shot and wounded , including suge knight , who himself is currently being held on murder charges for an unrelated incident
scott free : although he was n't implicated in either , brown was present at two recent shooting incidents in california why me ? : the singer was performing on stage in san jose - having left the country without permission from his probation officer - when five people were shot , while suge knight was also shot at a separate party he hosted wwjd ? : brown asked and then thanked god on twitter for his escape although brown was never implicated in either shooting , his probation report notes that ' there is also concern that when he performs or attends at some of his public events , people will get shot or seriously injured '
the musician 's probation had been revoked on a number of previous occasions
in july 2013 he was involved in a hit - and - run in los angeles , but the charges were dropped before he found out if he would have to go to jail under the terms of his probation
red flags : the musician , seen here performing this week at the hampton colliseum in virginia , has had his probation revoked several of times for a number of different incidents brown , seen here remanded in custody while he awaited to hear his fate following his assault on a man outside a hotel in washington , which reportedly occurred when a photobombing incident spiraled out of hand in october of that year he was involved in a fight with two men outside the w hotel in washington and his parole was again revoked , but again he escaped a prison sentence when the judge ruled his progress in anger management classes was enough to offset it
but when he was kicked out of rehab - another violation of his probation rules - he was finally sent to jail in march of last year , but released early in june due to prison overcrowding ktla reporter christina pacucci , who was outside the courtroom , tweeted ' i asked @ chrisrown how it feels to be done
he said with a huge smile - " two thumbs up "
having tweeted earlier in the day ' hopefully this is my last day in court ... pray for me ' , brown then tweeted : ' im off probation ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! thank the lord ! ! ! ! ! ! ' battered : rihanna in 2009 , waiting to hear if her former boyfriend brown would stand trial for assaulting her