there may be no english clubs in the last eight of the champions league but the rest of europe 's big names are in the hat for friday 's draw
barcelona and juventus were the final sides to make the quarter - finals as they enjoyed victories over manchester city and dortmund respectively
here , sportsmail runs the rule over the eight sides still in the competition
real madrid who did they beat to get this far ? real madrid finished top of group b , winning all six matches against basle , liverpool and ludogorets
they played schalke in the last 16 , beating them 2 - 0 in germans but losing 4 - 3 in real madrid
they advanced to the quarter - finals with a 5 - 4 win on aggregate
manager carlo ancelotti top goalscorer cristiano ronaldo - 8 have they ever won it ? yes
ten times ( runner - up three times ) cristiano ronaldo helped real madrid squeeze past schalke to reach the champions league last eight the draw takes place in nyon , switzerland on friday from 11am gmt. there are no restrictions on who can play who and ties will take place on april 14/15 and april 21/22
porto who did they beat to get this far ? porto finished top of group h , winning four of their matches and drawing twice
their most memorable win was beating bate 6 - 0 in their opening group game
they also beat them 3 - 0 away
they played basle in the last 16 , drawing 1 - 1 away before winning 4 - 0 at home for a 5 - 1 aggregate
manager julen lopetegui top goalscorer jackson martinez and yacine brahimi - both 5 have they ever won it ? yes
twice midfielder yacine brahimi ( left ) has been the leading light in porto 's march to the quarter - finals bayern munich who did they beat to get this far ? bayern munich finished top of group e , winning five of their matches and losing one against manchester city
their most notable group win was against roma , hammering them 7 - 1 in italy
they played shakhtar in the last 16 , drawing 0 - 0 away but winning 7 - 0 at home
manager pep guardiola top goalscorer thomas muller - 5 have they ever won it ? yes
five times ( runner - up five times ) after a goalless draw in donetsk , bayern munich fired seven past shakhtar to progress paris saint-germain who did they beat to get this far ? paris saint-germain finished second in group f behind barcelona , winning four of their games , drawing one with ajax and losing another against barcelona
they played chelsea in the last 16 , drawing 1 - 1 in paris before playing out an admirable 2 - 2 with 10 men in london
they went through on away goals at 3 - 3
manager laurent blanc top goalscorer edinson cavani - 6 have they ever won it ? no thiago silva 's looping header in extra time sent paris saint-gemain through at the expense of chelsea monaco who did they beat to get this far ? monaco finished top of group c , winning three of their games , drawing two and losing the other against benfica
they played arsenal in the last 16 , winning 3 - 1 away before losing 2 - 0 at home
they progressed to the quarter - finals on the away goals rule with a 3 - 3 aggregate
manager leonardo jardim top goalscorer lucas ocampos , aymen abdennour , yannick ferreira-carrasco , dimitar berbatov , geoffrey kondogbia , fabinho , joao moutinho - all one have they ever won it ? never ( runner - up once ) monaco celebrate reaching the quarter - finals despite losing 2 - 0 to arsenal this week atletico madrid who did they beat to get this far ? atletico madrid finished top of group a , winning four of their games , drawing one with juventus and losing the other 3 - 2 against olympiacos in their opening match
they played leverkusen in the last 16 , losing 1 - 0 away but winning by the same scoreline at home
it went to extra-time then penalties and the spain beat the germans 3 - 2 to progress to the quarter - finals
manager diego simeone top goalscorer mario mandzukic - 5 have they ever won it ? never ( runner - up twice ) fernando torres scores from the spot during atletico madrid 's penalty shootout victory over leverkusen barcelona who did they beat to get this far ? barcelona finished top of group f , winning five of their games and losing the other 3 - 2 against paris saint-germain
they played manchester city in the last 16 , winning 2 - 1 at the etihad and 1 - 0 at the nou camp
they progressed to the quarter - finals 3 - 1 on aggregate
manager luis enrique top goalscorer lionel messi - 8 have they ever won it ? yes
four times ( runner - up three times ) lionel messi did everything but score as he delivered a masterclass against manchester city at the nou camp juventus who did they beat to get this far ? juventus finished second in group a , winning three of their games , drawing one with atletico madrid and losing the other against olympiacos
they played dortmund in the last 16 , winning 2 - 1 at home before hammering the germans 3 - 0 away for a 5 - 1 aggregate
manager massimiliano allegri top goalscorer carlos tevez - 6 have they ever won it ? yes
twice ( runner - up five times ) carlos tevez was juventus ' two - goal hero against dortmund as the serie a leaders made it through