at this rate the politicians will be sticking their children down as election expenses
miliband yesterday took the ' hello - isation ' of general election coverage to a whole new level
he invited itv 's breakfast telly to accompany him on the school run with his little sons
folks , it was a heart - melter
well , that was the intention , anyway
were these nicknames for certain members of the shadow cabinet by any chance ? oddly enough , they were not , though there might be no shortage of candidates for boo-boo
boo-boo and hee-hee were in fact fictional beings of mr miliband 's creation and they lived on a place called faraway planet
' nobody visits them because they are far away , ' explained mr miliband with a logic so faultless you could almost call it marxist
he and his wide - eyed sons were walking down a north london street , accompanied by no one – except , that is , an itv film crew
presenter shephard was holding daniel 's hand
can anyone remind me of mr miliband 's position about press intrusion into private lives ? any idea that it was normal for mr miliband to take the little ones to school was soon dashed
he admitted it was ' a rare treat ' for him
oh , so you mean he only did it to give us a false impression that he is a new man ? mr shephard put on a pair of spaniel eyes and asked if miliband ever felt guilty about missing his boys ' childhood
' i do , i do , ' came the eager reply
many working blokes make similar sacrifices , mind you
miliband 's ' functional kitchenette ' was slammed as dingy and unhomely when it featured on the bbc the rest of itv 's interview was conducted at the milibands ' house , the children by now having been parked
miliband was asked about his brother david – the one he stiffed for the labour crown
' we had a bruising leadership contest four years ago
he 's moved on from that
i 've moved on from that , ' insisted cain
it is certainly true to say david has moved on from it
he moved to new york ! ' he 's got his own thing that he 's doing , ' said ed. ' he wants to focus on that
' got that , david ? if all this was toe - curling , wait till you hear what shepard asked next
he mentioned mr miliband 's lovely wife justine , noted how busy their lives were , and asked our would - be prime minister : ' how do you keep the romance going ? ' strewth
how much detail were we after here ? even mr miliband looked a bit staggered at this descent into bedroom territory
pinkening , he said ' that 's a good question '
he added that ' there 's nothing more we like than a night in , just spending some time together '
enough , enough ! the interview was the last in itv 's breakfast tv one - to - ones with the party leaders
much more of that and i 'd have emigrated to faraway planet .