a teenager has received support from around the world after he revealed his father had called his coming out as gay ' worse than death '
vancouver - born tyler , 15 , posted the facebook conversation he had had with his dad on his tumblr account , in which he is told that news of his sexuality is an ' embarrassment '
he reveals that he first told his news to his sisters , who were extremely supportive , and then came out to his mother , before telling his father
tyler , a 15 - year - old from vancouver , came out to his father and has posted his reaction on social media in response to tyler 's news , his father wrote back : ‘ we took care of you since you were a baby
we loved you , took care of you when you ’re sick
lost many days and nights in all your fifteen years
' now this is what we get in return , shame and embarrassment
' he continued : ' if only you did n't reject god and his teachings in your life you could have been strong enough to stay from evil and scums that surrounds you
' in further messages , perhaps in response to tyler 's tumblr post , his father went on : ' take out your post from social media
' you embarrass me from all the people i knew
' i 'm going to puke
whatever you do it reflects on me
people will ridicule me , insult me , and i might turn out to be a criminal
i have enough of all this bulls * * *
' a father 's reaction to his 15 - year - old son coming out as gay has been documented in this facebook conversation that 's sweeping the internet tyler 's father responded to the news with the words : ' i 'm going to puke ' and ' this is worse than death ' he concluded : ' you are trying to ruin me
this is worse than death
' discussing his father 's messages in an interview with huffington post b.c. , tyler , who lives with his aunts , said : ' i ’m hoping there ’s still the possibility that he could change , even if it takes a while
‘ maybe he could accept me , because that ’s all i want … i just want him to be there for me
’ on his twitter account , tyler has posted two pictures of himself and his boyfriend , one of which is ' mom tells me not to be so public with my bf
i say f * * * it '
tyler , who shared his story to highlight the issue , has received plenty of support on social media
puddlington wrote : ' mate , from the other side of the atlantic , be proud of how you are born
hope everything comes around with your dad
' katerina added : ' your father is ignorant and he needs some education on many matters , bc i suppose he is not so narrow minded only regarding this
' tyler , who shared his story to highlight the issue , has received plenty of support on social media naithom posted : ' i 'm so sorry for the way your dad 's handling the situation
please surround yourself w / people who love & care for you as you are
' marshall moore wrote tyler a message of support : ' just read about your story
different generation but i still get it
stay strong and please do n't give up on yourself
he added in a separate post : ' every time i see a story like this , i foam at the mouth
the world should 've moved on by now
' another user , called goddess , added : ' just read about your story and i think you are very brave and i hope this makes you a stronger person
namaste ... ' tyler re-tweeted a succession of supportive messages from strangers and friends alike the teen was applauded for his bravery by users on twitter strangers reached out to him on the social network , offering words of advice and support alexander de leon posted : ' you 're so brave , bud ! what you 've done has given you freedom ! many admire you ! ' carmen andrews , a mother gave a touching perspective on the situation : ' it 's your dad 's loss
be proud of who you are ! i love my son the same as i did the day before he came out to me
# love ' pensioner jacqui christensen wrote : ' i 'm a 75 year old woman , mother to three children
be proud of who you are
what your father is saying is so unfair
' people choose to have children
caring for them is part of the deal
parents should respect who that child is ; what he becomes
' linda sims posted : ' you are the bravest person i have ever known ! ! ! always stay true to yourself ! ! you are a gem ! ! ' daily mail online has contacted tyler for a comment .