iranians diplomats twice confronted their u.s. counterparts about an open letter from republican senators who warned that any nuclear deal could expire the day president barack obama leaves office , a senior u.s. official said monday
the official , noting the administration 's warnings when the letter first surfaced , said the republican intervention was a new issue in the tense negotiations facing an end - of - month deadline for an agreement to reduce iranians 's ability to produce a nuclear weapon in exchange for loosing western sanctions
the letter came up in nuclear talks sunday between senior u.s. and iranians negotiators , the official said , and the iranians raised it again in discussions monday in lausanne , switzerland led by secretary of state john kerry and iranians foreign minister mohammad javad zarif
' it is necessary that the stance of the u.s. administration be defined about this move , ' he was quoted as saying
john kerry and mohammad javad zarif met for nearly five hours in lausanne , the start of several planned days of discussions
most of the iranians then departed for brussels , where they were to meet with european negotiators
in brussels , european union foreign policy chief federica mogherini said that ' we are entering a crucial time , a crucial two weeks
' and germany foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier said that after ' more than ten years of negotiations , we should seize this opportunity
' the u.s. and iranians are plunging back into negotiations in a bid to end a decades - long standoff that has raised the specter of an iranians nuclear arsenal , a new atomic arms race in the middle east and even a u.s. or israeli military intervention u.s. secretary of state john kerry takes a break during a bilateral meeting with iranians foreign minister mohammad javad zarif over iranians 's nuclear program ' there are areas where we 've made progress , areas where we have yet to make any progress , ' britain foreign secretary philip hammond said
' but the fact that we 're all here talking shows the commitment on both sides to try to reach an agreement
' in lausanne , the u.s. official would n't say how much time the sides spent talking about the letter drafted seven days ago by freshman sen. cotton of arkansas and signed by 46 other republican senators
the iranians have called the letter a propaganda ploy , and mohammad javad zarif joked last week that some u.s. legislators did n't understand their own constitution
the obama administration has called the letter ' ill timed ' and ' ill advised , ' coming weeks before the deadline for a preliminary agreement with iranians on its nuclear program
in the end , the talks and a potential agreement depend on iranians showing the world that its nuclear program is exclusively peaceful , said the u.s. official , who briefed reporters only condition of anonymity
the goal for a full agreement is the end of june
u.s. energy secretary ernest moniz , u.s. secretary of state john kerry , iranians 's foreign minister mohammad javad zarif and the head of the atomic energy organization of iran ali akbar salehi , from left to right , pose for a photograph before resuming talks over iranians 's nuclear program republican argue that a deal would be insufficient and unenforceable , allowing iranians to eventually become a nuclear - armed state
to that end , they 've delivered a series of proposals to undercut or block an agreement , including ones that would require senate say - so on a deal and order new sanctions against iranians while negotiations are underway
cotton 's letter , the administration and congressional democrats argue , went further , interfering in the president 's execution of u.s. foreign policy
the letter , styled as a u.s. civics lesson , warned iranians leaders that any deal negotiated by the current administration could be tossed by barack obama 's successor
barack obama and other officials insist they 're not going to make any deal that would allow iranians to acquire nuclear weapons
the agreement taking shape would limit iranians 's uranium enrichment and other nuclear activity for at least a decade , with the restrictions slowly lifted over several years
from left , germany foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , european union high representative federica mogherini , iranians 's foreign minister mohammad javad zarif and britain foreign minister philip hammond stand for a group photo prior to a meeting in brussels on monday washington and other world powers also would gradually scale back sanctions that have crippled the iranians economy
tehran says it is only interested in peaceful energy generation and medical research , but much of the world suspects it harbors nuclear weapons ambitions
john kerry and mohammad javad zarif plan to regroup in lausanne on tuesday
the u.s. secretary of state is to return to washington by week 's end for talks with afghanistan 's leaders , and the iranians plan to break for the persian new year
officials say talks might restart sometime next week , if necessary
a deal would also require the approval of u.s. 's negotiating partners : britain , china , france , germany and russia
with little time remaining before the end of march , some officials have said the persistent differences mean negotiators will likely settle for an announcement that they 've made enough progress to justify further talks
such a declaration would hardly satisfy u.s. critics of the barack obama administration 's efforts
but the senior u.s. official said the goal was to determine by the end of march ' if we can get to a political framework that addresses the major elements of a comprehensive deal