real madrid draw atletico in champions league last eight
the two sides met in last season 's final , with real madrid coming out on top
barcelona face psg , while bayern munich take on porto
arsenal 's conquerors , monaco , will meet serie a champions juve
quarter - final ties to take place on april 14 , 15 , 21 and 22
click here to see how it all unfolded
these sides have met twice before in the champions league quarter - final stage . the french side progressed 3 - 2 on aggregate in 1995 , while barcelona went through on away goals in 2013 ( 3 - 3 on agg ) .
barcelona have never won in three away trips to face psg ( l2 d1 ) , including a 3 - 2 defeat in this year ’ group stage .
psg have lost one and drawn two of their three visits to the nou camp to face barcelona , including a 3 - 1 defeat in this year ’s group stage .
both teams have scored in six of the seven previous meetings between the sides in european competition . the only game where one team failed to score was in the 1997 cup winner ’s cup final , with barcelona winning 1 - 0 .
lionel messi has scored three goals in four champions league games against the french side , while neymar also scored in both group stage games against them this season .
barcelona have lost just one of their last 11 games against french opposition , though this was against psg this season ( w6 d4 ) .
atletico and real madrid have already met six times this season with atleti remaining unbeaten , winning four ( including both league clashes ) and drawing two .
atletico have scored exactly once in all four previous european meetings with city rivals real madrid , winning just once and losing three .
including this season , there has been at least one spanish team in the champions league quarter - final for the last 10 campaigns .
for only the third time in champions league history , a quarter - final tie will feature two spanish sides ; however it is the second season in a row that this has happened ( real madrid v sevilla in 1958 and atletico v barcelona in 2014 ) .
bayern munich only lost 1 of 22 competitive matches versus portuguese teams ( 13 w , 8 d ) : the champions league final 1987 : 1 - 2 versus porto .
bayern munich won the last knockout tie against a portuguese team 12 - 1 : 5 - 0 a and 7 - 1 h against sporting in the last 16 of the cl 2008/09 .
porto 's one previous knockout champions league victory over a german side came in the 1987 final ; they have been eliminated from three knockout ties since , two against bayern munich and one against schalke .
bayern munich have kept seven clean sheets in their last nine against portuguese sides , conceding just twice in total .
these two sides have only ever met before in the 97/98 champions league , when juve won 4 - 1 at home and lost 2 - 3 in monte carlo on their way to the final where they lost 1 - 0 to real madrid .
in their 24 european meetings with french teams ( including intertoto ) , the juve have lost just five times , winning 14 and drawing five .
however in the champions league only , juve has won just two of their six games against french sides ( one win v monaco in 1998 and a victory against nantes in 1996 ) .
in their 11 european meetings with italian sides , monaco have won just three times ( d2 l6 ) , although two of those victories have come in their last three clashes with serie a sides .