for years , weinstein 's family frantically searched for details about his whereabouts and pushed for his release
his wife said she was still searching for answers thursday after u.s. officials revealed the 73 - year - old u.s. aid worker had been accidentally killed in a u.s. drone strike targeting al qaeda
" we were so hopeful that those in the u.s. and pakistan governments with the power to take action and secure his release would have done everything possible to do so , and there are no words to do justice to the disappointment and heartbreak we are going through , " elaine weinstein said in a statement
" we do not yet fully understand all of the facts surrounding weinstein 's death , but we do understand that the u.s. government will be conducting an independent investigation of the circumstances
" gunmen abducted weinstein in 2011 from his home in lahore , parkistan
just a few months after weinstein 's capture , al qaeda leader ayman al-zawahiri released a recording claiming the terror group was holding weinstein -- and demanding , among other things , that the u.s. end airstrikes in pakistan
u.s. officials called for his release but repeatedly said washington would n't bargain with al qaeda
weinstein -- a husband , father and grandfather from rockville , maryland -- was 73 years old when he was killed , according to a family website detailing information about his case
he worked in pakistan as a contractor for the usaid from 2004 to 2011 , the website says
" weinstein spent his entire life working to benefit people across the globe and loved the work that he did to make people 's lives better , " his wife said thursday
" as he announced weinstein 's death thursday , u.s. president obama praised what he said was weinstein 's lifelong dedication to service , first as a peace corps volunteer and later as a usaid contractor
weinstein , obama said , was someone who " willingly left the comforts of home to help the people of pakistan , " focusing his work on helping families escape poverty to give their children a better life
... it 's tragic that he was killed the way he was , " former u.s. ambassador dan simpson said
u.s. officials knew they were targeting an al qaeda compound in the afghanistan - pakistan border region in the january counterterrorism operation , obama said , but they did n't know that the hostages were also there
" weinstein 's work benefited people across faiths
meanwhile , al qaeda boasted to the world that it held weinstein citing his jewish faith
" weinstein 's health had been deteriorating , obama said
that month captors released u.s. army sgt. bowe bergdahl , and that buoyed hopes from weinstein 's family that he could also be freed
al qaeda released a video of weinstein on christmas 2013
" weinstein 's wife 's statement on thursday thanked some but also blasted the governments of the u.s. and pakistan for not doing more to help her husband
" weinstein 's safe return should have been a priority for them based on his contributions to their country , but they failed to take action earlier in his captivity when opportunity presented itself , instead treating weinstein 's captivity as more of an annoyance than a priority , " she said