u.s. president obama 's recent explanation of how his administration will engage with the middle east is far from reassuring to the region
in his interview with friedman from the new york times on april 4 , obama explained u.s. foreign policy moves on iran and cuba , which friedman described as the " obama doctrine
" by capabilities , the president must mean the tools , whether diplomatic , economic or military , to protect and defend u.s. interests
the doctrine is significant because it provides greater clarity about the u.s. policy under the rest of obama 's presidency
instead of the " new beginning " that the president outlined in his much discussed cairo speech in 2009 , u.s. policy in the middle east remains mired in a contradiction between principles and action on the ground
" yet , at the very moment that the president was offering this assessment , u.s. allies , such as the arab gulf states , jordan , lebanon and the legitimate government in yemen , found themselves under serious threat and attack ; the syria regime was continuing to relentlessly bomb its own citizens ; and the middle east was faced with the biggest refugee crisis in its history
implementing the core u.s. interests outlined by obama in the interview is clearly not working
in the same vein , the majority of the arab world and the entire gulf region look at the recently announced iran nuclear deal with a sense of suspicion and trepidation
having directly experienced the problematic interventionist iran policies for decades , the arab world is simply not ready to give tehran the benefit of doubt on any regional issue
but neither is it ready to trust u.s. assurances that outside a nuclear agreement , the u.s. will indeed put forward a concerted strategy to contain iran influence throughout the region or to defend the gcc ( gcc ) states against any iran threat
instead , the fear is that as long as iran abides by any agreement that might come into force later this year , the u.s. will negate , downplay , or simply ignore those iran actions that the arab world considers as direct threats
" what obama failed to do is to highlight that this statement is in fact also applicable to iran
the truth of the matter is that " the region is ( not ) working " and that misguided u.s. leadership and policies are among the reasons for the enduring tragedy in this region