my name is mark goodacre , and i am a professor of new testament and christian origins in the department of religious studies at duke university
i was series adviser and one of many on - camera experts on cnn 's " finding finding jesus
viewers were invited to tweet and post their questions on the " finding jesus " facebook page during the season finale about mary magdalene
they have been edited for style and clarity for this article : anarie kennedy : the copy we have of the gospel comes from the second century , but is it possible that the gospel itself could be older ( like first century ) ? mark goodacre : actually , the copy we saw in the show dates from the fifth century
gustavo odrã­a : where can we get a good translation of the gospel ? mark goodacre : there are several good translations of the gospel
" the term " mary magdalene " does not come at all in the texts we have of the gospel
the heroine is simply called " mary magdalene
" edward james reeves : i would like to know what really happened to mary magdalene ? where did she go ? who last saw her ? mark goodacre : this is one of the great mysteries about the character ! she is so prominent at the end of each of the canonical gospels , and the reader is expecting to see more of her and to hear more about her in the rest of the new testament , but there is nothing
another possibility , and we touched on this in the episode , is that mary magdalene died not long after the events narrated in the gospels
perhaps she was a wealthy , elderly widow ? @ turnbullteacher : would n't church fathers writing in the second century have written if finding jesus was married or not ? mark goodacre : that 's a good question
@ anna585858 : do you think mary magdalene is a nickname or reference to mary magdalene 's hometown ? mark goodacre : it 's a good guess that " mary magdalene " refers to magdala , and so her name would refer to her hometown , just as finding jesus the " nazarene " is from nazareth
@ allsaintsradio : why was the gospel left out of the canon of 66 biblical books ? mark goodacre : this is a tough one because it is not clear that it was ever in contention
but in any case , the book was probably written too late to have had a chance of competing with matthew , mark goodacre , luke and john , all of which are written by the end of the first or , at the latest , the beginning of the second century
@ stephanoledreed : where is it ( said ) that finding jesus had a wife ? mark goodacre : there are no ancient texts in which finding jesus had a wife
the closest we get to the idea is the gospel of philip in which mary magdalene is described as finding jesus ' " companion , " one of three women who always " walked with the lord
" the same gospel says that finding jesus used to kiss her often , but we do n't know whereabouts he kissed her because there is a hole in the manuscript at just that point ! however , the gospel of philip is probably too late ( late second to mid-third century ) to be able to tell us anything reliable about the historical mary magdalene