" my son served in the army for four years
he served because we love our country
now look at us ? " muna is gesturing around her at the slatted cargo hold she and her family -- all nine of them -- are trying to get comfortable in
her family is among the dozens of u.s. caught in the crossfire of warring parties in yemen
and although many other countries evacuated their citizens , indians most notably ferrying out around 5,000 , the u.s. has said it is too dangerous for them to directly evacuate u.s. nationals
for more than three weeks , neighboring saudi arabia has been conducting airstrikes in yemen
at one time , the houthis held yemen 's president under house arrest , before he escaped and fled
we were just sitting there waiting for someone to come and say ' ok where are the u.s. , let 's pick them up , ' " she said
" the state department said it is too risky to conduct an evacuation of citizens from the area
" we have to make a decision based on the security situation and what is feasible to do , " state department spokeswoman marie harf said earlier this month
" and given the situation in yemen is quite dangerous and unpredictable , doing something like sending in military assets even for an evacuation could put u.s. citizen lives at greater risk
" a group of u.s. organizations , including the council on american-islamic relations and the u.s. - arab anti-discrimination league , have filed a lawsuit against the state department and defense department over the government 's stance on evacuations
it was purely coincidence that led to muna being on board this ship , a wooden vessel chartered by cnn to reach the port city of aden , in yemen
muna was visiting her sick father in aden when fighting broke out around her
it took us over 30 hours of travel -- and a lull in the fighting -- for us to be able to dock at one of aden 's smaller ports
we agreed to take back 60 refugees -- including 15 u.s. -- who had gathered at the port 's gate when news of our arrival spread
for muna , her ordeal ended at djibouti port where higgins , the u.s. deputy chief of mission , was among the embassy staff waiting to meet them
i asked higgins about the sense of abandonment muna and many of the other u.s. trapped in yemen said they felt
there 's the houthis -- neither of these two groups friendly to u.s. citizens
" higgins said ultimately each u.s. citizen is going to have to judge what is best for themselves and their families
" for many u.s. citizens , that 's going to mean sheltering in place
for other u.s. citizens , we 're actively working at getting information to them on different avenues for travel out of yemen
in this time of crisis , the $ 300 - a - person fee was n't an official tax , but something that local fishermen were charging to ferry passengers to the boat to board