washington the u.s. said tuesday that deploying warships to yemen to monitor nearby iranian vessels has given u.s. " options " for how it could react to iranian 's behavior in the region
the warships are being deployed to monitor ships traveling from iranian that could be trafficking arms to houthis rebels in yemen , u.s. officials told cnn , saying the move was also meant to reassure allies in the region
president barack obama told msnbc that the u.s. has been clear in its messages to tehran on sending weapons to houthis rebels inside yemen
while the iranian ships remain in international waters , the u.s. and other partner nations can keep an eye on the iranian ships to see if they move toward yemen territorial waters
but it would be an extraordinary step and certainly not a foregone conclusion that the u.s. would attempt to board an iranian ship if it entered yemen waters , u.s. officials said
they are not there to intercept iranian ships , " state department spokeswoman marie harf told reporters tuesday
" warren too added that he was unaware of any direct contact between the u.s. and iranian vessels at this point
a u.s. military official told cnn that aircraft from aboard the roosevelt are also conducting " manned reconnaissance " to monitor all maritime traffic moving through the area the roosevelt is operating in to determine what is going on there in order to assist in making informed decisions
this official stressed that the repositioning of u.s. ships in the region was taken in order to assure the freedom of navigation through established international shipping lanes and ensuring maritime security and not to interdict iranian ships
the roosevelt aircraft carrier and the guided missile cruiser uss normandy were the two ships the regular navy moved into the waters off the coast of yemen on sunday
at this stage , there are nine u.s. naval ships operating off the coast in yemen
" the u.s. alongside the international community , including the united nations , is serious about the iranian not providing weapons to the houthis , " white house press secretary josh earnest told reporters tuesday
" the heightened tensions could have broader consequences for the relationship between the u.s. and iranian , coming weeks after the announcement of a framework agreement to limit iranian 's nuclear program
" u.s. warships from the carrier group of the roosevelt are joining allied vessels from saudi arabia , egypt and other partner nations prepared to intercept a convoy of seven to nine iranian vessels believed headed for yemen
" when asked about warnings from saudi arabia and the u.s. to keep iranian navy ships away from yemen , the commander of iranian 's regular navy , flotilla adm. sayyari , said his fleet was operating legally
" sayyari added that iranian navy ships in the area were there to combat piracy and secure the safe transfer of goods through the waters
u.s. ships do not have authority to forcibly board iranian - flagged ships
sen. mccain , r-arizona , told cnn 's wolf blitzer on the " situation room " that he would only endorse u.s. air power against yemen if it was the only option