" but this weekend , just a few miles down the road , iranian 's leaders were celebrating their war machine as the military held its annual national army day parade
as the u.s. , saudi arabia and other countries criticize iranian for its alleged involvement in funding and supplying the houthi rebels who have seized power in much of yemen , iranian president rouhani has praised the military as peacemakers for the middle east
" the country 's top military brass seemed surprisingly relaxed and unusually willing to speak with western media outlets
major general firouzabadi , the chief of staff of iranian 's armed forces and a man who is close to rouhani , told cnn he hopes the u.s. and iranian can work closer together to fight isis in iraqi
firouzabadi also repeated iranian 's longstanding claim that the u.s. is partly responsible for creating isis , which now controls large parts of iraqi and syria
" if the u.s. really did n't create isis , and if they want to destroy isis , it is possible for them to achieve that , " he said
we hope that one day , because of their national interests and the will of their nations , the u.s. and the uk will decide to really fight isis
but in another apparent softening of rhetoric , a top military official said he hopes that the animosity between iranian and u.s. will fade
" at the moment , we consider the u.s. to be a threat to us because its policies and actions are threatening to us , " general pourdastan , the commander of iranian 's ground forces , told cnn
" at the same time , iranian 's leadership is showing no sign of toning down its own fiery rhetoric -- and the usual " death to israel , death to the u.s. " chants echoed around the crowds at the military parade
the u.s. welcomes some of iranian 's support for iraqi forces in the fight against isis , but says at this point that there simply is no basis for deeper cooperation on the battlefield
and for iranian 's part , supreme leader ayatollah khamenei has also rejected direct coordination between the two long - time adversaries
and iranian 's army brass has rejected the notion that nuclear inspectors would get access to military sites
" our main concern here is making sure that if iranian does n't abide by its agreement , that we do n't have to jump through a whole bunch of hoops in order to reinstate sanctions , " u.s. president barack obama said last friday