warren weinstein , who appears to have been the only u.s. citizen held hostage by al qaeda , was accidentally killed in a u.s. drone strike in january
a senior u.s. official familiar with the handling of the issue told cnn that the u.s. government made no serious effort to negotiate for the 73 - year - old development expert 's release , either directly to al qaeda or through proxies in pakistani
another senior u.s. official told cnn that warren weinstein 's capture by al qaeda made it hard for the u.s. to negotiate , even though proxies such as the pakistani government have links to intermediaries who might have helped
a senior pakistani official told cnn that after warren weinstein was kidnapped , the pakistani government put out feelers to members of the militant haqqani network and to the pakistani taliban , which are both allied to al qaeda , to see if these groups might be able to initiate some kind of negotiation about warren weinstein
the senior pakistani official says that during the past year pakistani soldiers , who were part of a military offensive in the tribal area of north waziristan near the afghanistan - pakistani border where warren weinstein was believed to be being held , went door - to - door looking for the u.s.
on thursday , the u.s. government announced that warren weinstein had been killed in a " counterterrorism operation " in january , which is how the government often describes cia drone strikes
it is in one of these strikes that warren weinstein was almost certainly killed
lt. col. amerine , a planner on the army staff , is under investigation over a purported unauthorized disclosure to u.s. rep. hunter 's office , which has demonstrated a strong interest in the fate of u.s. hostages held by al qaeda and the taliban
a plan was developed in the pentagon to secure the release of warren weinstein , according to a staff member on hunter 's committee
that plan was to release haji bashir noorzai , a prominent and influential member of the taliban who is in prison in the u.s. on drug trafficking charges , in exchange for army sgt. bowe berghdal , who was held by the taliban until last year ; taliban hostages caitlin coleman , a u.s. citizen , and her husband , canadian joshua boyle ; and dr. shakil afridi , who spied for the cia in pakistani and was being held in a pakistani prison , as well as warren weinstein
hunter , a california republican , released a statement thursday , saying , " the only government organization seriously developing options to recover warren weinstein and others in the afghanistan / pakistani region was within the pentagon -- led by war hero amerine
" as an army captain , amerine led a small detachment of u.s. special forces into afghanistan in november 2001 in the wake of the september 11 attacks on the u.s.
who exactly carried out warren weinstein 's kidnapping from his house 3½ years ago in the pakistani megacity of lahore has until now not been clear
a senior pakistani counterterrorism official told cnn that members of the imu , or imu , kidnapped warren weinstein at his lahore home on august 13 , 2011
according to the pakistani official , the leader of the weinstein kidnapping cell was a relative of tahir yuldashev , the former imu leader killed in a cia drone strike in the pakistani tribal regions in 2009
the initial lead that traced the warren weinstein kidnapping to the imu came from another high - profile kidnapping in pakistani two weeks after warren weinstein 's abduction
the police subsequently arrested three uzbeks and four pakistani who were part of the imu cell that had carried out the warren weinstein kidnapping
after his capture , the leader of al qaeda , ayman al-zawahiri , demanded the end of cia drone strikes in pakistani and the release of terrorists held in u.s. custody in exchange for warren weinstein 's freedom
the barack obama administration is in the midst of a review of its hostage policy , which has been criticized by some families whose loved ones have been taken hostage by isis , al qaeda or the taliban
the cia could have exercised more due diligence knowing that warren weinstein was almost certainly being held in north waziristan
third , while the u.s. government position is that it will not make concessions to terrorist groups , there is nothing in u.s. policy to prevent another government from negotiating with terrorists to secure the release of u.s. citizens , and this should be encouraged , even if there is some quid pro quo involved
a senior u.s. official told cnn they are being held by the haqqani network