kabul , afghanistan it is a strangely detached scene for the close of u.s. 's longest war : military trainers bouncing between multi-million dollar , high security bases , on black hawks , miles from the front line
and even though the departure of u.s. troops will be fractionally slower , they will all be inside the u.s. embassy by the end of next year , making these some of their last weeks outside of the wire
we are near jalalabad , at a regional logistics hub for the afghanistan police force -- a generous facility that was originally intended to resupply the entire east of the country with uniforms , ammunition , even fuel for vehicles
the intentions , first hatched in 2011 when the u.s. had tens of thousands of troops and still large ambitions for their war here , were large in scale
but the project has been handed between rotations of u.s. officers and is perhaps a little distant from its first conception
dozens of afghanistan police gather there , and mill around , waiting for their commanders to arrive
u.s. officials told us they are optimistic the logistical road ahead can be smoothed -- that in the 18 plus months they have left they can get the afghanistan army and police up to furnishing themselves with the supply lines they need
there are about fifty afghanistan police currently on the base -- meaning each one has so far cost $ 400,000 to the u.s. taxpayer
with the clock ticking in the background , u.s. officer colonel jb vowell remains upbeat : " it 's going to be a challenge , to get all those little hubs and spokes -- logistics to maintenance , supplies , resupply
" on the outskirts of the base are the relics of the u.s. 's military involvement in a conflict that still continues to kill afghanistan security forces at an accelerated rate
suvs , even old u.s. humvees -- now gifted to afghanistan police to drive around -- lie disabled by mine strikes
the u.s. were hoping the police could stack the vehicles here , assess their resupply needs , or cannibalize the damaged vehicles for spare parts
surrounding our crew at all times are " guardian angels " -- u.s. soldiers on guard duty , protecting their own from rogue afghanistan police or soldiers , trying to prevent the newest and most serious scourge -- " green on blue " attacks , in which afghanistan security forces turn their guns on u.s.