on thursday , president obama revealed that a u.s. drone strike had killed warren weinstein and giovanni lo porto , two aid workers held hostage on the afghanistan - pakistan border
al qaeda had sought to trade the two for prisoners held by the u.s. and an end to drone strikes
but it is not only terrorist groups that try to reap reward from the taking of hostages -- take the case of jason rezaian , the washington post 's tehran bureau chief
on april 20 , just two days before diplomats resumed talks in vienna , austria , to reach a final agreement over iran 's nuclear program , jason rezaian 's iran attorney announced that his client had been charged with espionage , conducting propaganda , collaborating with foreign governments and collecting information " with malicious intent
" the state department , jason rezaian 's employers at the washington post and fellow journalists reacted with outrage
their anger is justified , but the decision should surprise no one : there is a long history of rogue regimes seizing hostages against the backdrop of diplomacy to extract concessions , humiliate the u.s. or signal unease
the scale of iran 's current hostage - taking -- not only jason rezaian but also iran - u.s. saeed abedini and amir hekmati -- may pale in comparison with iran behavior of decades past
according to brzezinski 's own memoir , he told bazargan that the u.s. was open to any relationship the islamic republic wanted
iran proxies seized a number of u.s. in lebanon
initially , the scheme worked , but no sooner had u.s. officials delivered the last load of military equipment and the last hostages set free , then kidnappers seized three more u.s.
whenever the u.s. tries to use diplomacy to bring rogue regimes in from the cold , it faces hostage crises
north korea 's police force put out word that " general kim jong un 's artifice let former u.s. president clinton cross the pacific to apologize to the great leader
ling and lee were neither the first nor the last u.s. that north korea seized during the obama era
pyongyang responded by threatening gomes , an u.s. imprisoned earlier that year for illegally entering north korea
the pattern would repeat in 2012 when north korea seized kenneth bae , an u.s. whom kim jong un sought to leverage into concessions
in march 1995 , iraq security forces seized two u.s. defense contractors who strayed into iraq from kuwait
the u.s. media lauded richardson , but his trip was not without cost : saddam hussein used it to depict iraq as strong and u.s. as weak
" president saddam hussein ... accepts the pleas by clinton , the congress and u.s. people , " the iraqi news agency reported
fifteen years before obama traded alleged u.s. deserter bowe bergdahl for five high - value taliban and alleged al qaeda operatives imprisoned at guantanamo bay , the taliban arrested two u.s. female missionaries
their detention -- and threatened death sentence -- came against the backdrop of clinton - era attempts to negotiate with and perhaps even normalize relations with the taliban ; the taliban , too , knew how holding u.s. captive could even the playing field or even represent leverage for new concessions
hostages such as jason rezaian are canaries in the coal mine , however