washington in 2011 , al qaeda took weinstein hostage
then , about a year later , his family paid money to his captors , said a pakistani source who was in regular contact with the kidnappers
it did not lead to the u.s. aid worker 's release , and he was inadvertently killed in an anti-terror strike in january , the white house announced thursday
after the transfer of funds in 2012 , the captors , who never referred to themselves as " al qaeda , " but instead as " afghanistan , " began demanding prisoners be released in exchange for weinstein , most prominently dr. aafia siddiqui of pakistani , the source said
she has been described as the " poster girl " for islamic jihad and is serving an 86 - year sentence in the u.s.
the militants also wanted the release of local militants who hailed from the pakistani province of waziristan , along the afghanistan border , the source said
and they were professional in their dealings , said the source , who noticed a marked change after the money was paid
the people who had originally talked to the source about weinstein vanished and were replaced by new voices on the phone
after isis beheaded u.s. james foley , weinstein 's afghanistan captors told the source that " the iraqis " were asking for the u.s. and that they were preparing an " orange suit " for him -- a reference to the suits that victims have worn when isis militants murdered them
when the taliban released u.s. army sgt. bowe bergdahl , a militant on the phone bragged to the source that he had been one of bergdahl 's kidnappers
they had said , at one point , that if they did kill weinstein , they 'd announce it in a big way , because he was too big a catch not to publicly celebrate
the captors had called the source daily since sometime in 2012 , and the last time the source spoke with them , in early april , they said that weinstein was still alive
the source declined to comment on the amount of money transferred to the captors , leaving the disclosure to weinstein 's family
could weinstein have been saved ? weinstein 's family in d-maryland was initially reluctant to take their case to congress
weinstein 's wife , elaine , and his two daughters worried that drawing attention to their loved one 's plight -- especially media attention -- would make weinstein , a government contractor working with usaid in pakistani , a more valuable hostage to his al qaeda captors
but the family switched course and went to their representatives in congress in late 2013 after a video of weinstein -- frail and apparently in declining health -- surfaced in which he said he felt " totally abandoned and forgotten " by his country
will the drone debate return ? more than a year later , that reluctance evolved into a close bond between the weinsteins and the d-maryland delegation of lawmakers and staff who pressed weinstein 's case with the obama administration as well as pakistani
after the white house announced that weinstein had been accidentally killed in a january u.s. drone strike , the aide 's first call was to weinstein 's daughters
" cardin and his staff had tracked the weinstein case since news of his abduction surfaced in august 2011 , but when the family reached out to get help pressing their case , cardin 's staff joined forces with rep. john delaney , the weinsteins ' congressman , and began setting up meetings for the family
cardin 's staff set up meetings for the senator and weinstein 's family with everyone from the u.s. special representative to afghanistan and pakistani to the pakistani ambassador in washington
cardin and sen. mikulski , d-maryland , wrote to president obama , calling on the u.s. to beef up efforts to secure weinstein 's release and dedicate more resources to the cause
al qaeda hostage weinstein killed " unfortunately , the assistance we received from other elements of the u.s. government was inconsistent and disappointing over the course of three and a half years , " elaine weinstein said in a statement thursday
" it 's a criticism that has resurfaced as the families of u.s. hostages were killed abroad spoke up and voiced their frustrations with what they characterized as insufficient u.s. government efforts to bring their loved ones home
the weinstein family 's frustration with that system boiled over last summer when bergdahl , the u.s. army sergeant , was released by a taliban - affiliated group in exchange for five guantanamo bay prisoners
" it 's one of those things where it 's both there 's some hope , but at the same time it caused them some great frustration , " delaney recalled , saying the family asked : " why not weinstein ? " but as the state department called the bergdahl exchange a " unique situation , " the weinsteins ' hopes were dashed
" delaney introduced a resolution calling on the obama administration to use all tools necessary to bring weinstein home and make his return -- and that of other u.s. hostages abroad -- a top priority
" white house press secretary josh earnest on thursday said that " significant resources " were dedicated to try to free weinstein and that " as painful as it is , " the u.s. policy of not negotiating with terrorists would remain in place , arguing that removing that policy could promote kidnappings abroad and put more u.s. at risk
the white house announced the review last fall , which obama ordered last summer after terrorists killed or kidnapped u.s. abroad
" i think that every single u.s. wants any u.s. held hostage returned , " delaney said