last august the indiana governor was in dallas for an americans for prosperity event ; the group is backed by the conservative koch brothers , and supported gov. pence 's tax - slashing budget
why would pence ignore the pleas of indiana 's chamber of commerce as well as the gop mayor of his state capital and sign such a bill ? because there 's a very powerful wing of his party that wants a conservative as its 2016 candidate and this bill was pence 's way of shoring up his street cred
it is also the reason why gop jeb bush , pence 's fellow house hopeful , who is viewed as a little light in that category , was first to rush in to defend pence and the law
and while that may not be enough to get him over this political hump , the very public debate that now embroils him — and arkansas gov. asa hutchinson , and likely 14 other states considering similar proposals this year -- is more than enough to drag the entire gop field farther to the right than the party had hoped
pence : ' was i expecting this kind of backlash ? heavens no. ' for there is no way a gop can get through the pending primary without denouncing lgbt rights , which unfortunately will turn numerous america into single - issue voters
i foolishly hoped the issue of lgbt rights would be a bit player in the 2016 general election , overshadowed by foreign policy and the economy
for this war is for the soul of america
" progressives may enjoy watching pence 's temporary fall from grace , but his policy rhetoric has echoed that of 2016 hopeful sen. cruz of texas , who has indicated a federal ban on same - sex marriage is not off the gop table
and even if you think neither pence nor jeb bush nor cruz will win the nomination , someone has to
in light of that , listen to conservative former arkansas gov. huckabee , a potential 2016 candidate describing conservatives ' discomfort with same - sex marriage : " it 's like asking someone who 's jewish to start serving bacon - wrapped shrimp in their deli
" or louisiana gov. jindal : " i certainly will support cruz and others that are talking about making ... a constitutional amendment to allow states to continue to define marriage
" or wisconsin gov. walker , who has a long history of fighting against same - sex marriage and civil unions
" who supports , denounces indiana law ? gallup polls may suggest voters nationwide are more gay - friendly , but the trend on the state level tells a different story
that 's assuming you are part of the " we " who believe lgbt people should have the same rights as their heterosexual / cisgender counterparts
but as the situation in indiana has shown , " winning " should not be mistaken for having " won