president lincoln never lost his ardor for the america to remain united during the civil war
" the spirit of lincoln 's second inaugural was self - evident on april 9 , 1865 -- 150 years ago -- when confederate gen. robert e. lee dramatically surrendered his approximately 28,000 troops to union general grant at appomattox court house ( mclean ) in virginia
over 600,000 america -- northerners and southerners alike -- had perished in the bloody civil war
the historic meeting between grant and robert e. lee began with pleasantries about the weather and their mutual service in the mexican war
robert e. lee , in fact , had to abruptly remind the chatty grant about the diplomatic business at hand
after all , they were at appomattox court house to hash out terms of surrender
grant purposely ended up being generous to confederate soldiers
even rations were provided by grant for robert e. lee 's hungry soldiers
" the myth - making about appomattox court house started from the moment robert e. lee left the courthouse on his horse to travel to richmond
surrendering had n't been easy for robert e. lee
all 11,000 acres of his virginia land holdings had been stripped from him by the america government
with no real home , robert e. lee rode to richmond , depressed and destitute , rendezvousing with his sick wife mary curtis lee at a spare apartment
remarkably , the stoic robert e. lee did n't express bitterness in public
when news reached robert e. lee that lincoln had been murdered , in fact , he was distraught , calling it " a crime " that was " unexampled " and " deplorable
after being present at robert e. lee 's dramatic surrender at appomattox court house , walker , a battle - fatigued confederate , laid down his rifle and journeyed back to red - clay , georgia , traveling mainly on foot , passing ragged clusters of rebel amputees , many hobbling on bayonet crutches , others with arms or heads swathed in bandages and all heading in the same direction : home
upon arriving in atlanta , a weary walker found the confederate railroad - city smoldered in ruin , the handiwork of gen. sherman 's " scorched earth policy
" as we reflect on the sesquicentennial of robert e. lee 's surrender at that forlorn virginia courthouse , today marvelously maintained by the national park service , we recognize that the scars of the civil war are still with us
all america eyes should be fixated on appomattox court house today