young professional footballers can be an easy target with some of their behaviour but on thursday afternoon it was refreshing to sit down and talk with welbeck
we discussed life at arsenal , scoring against manchester united and his fa cup dreams
you can watch the full interview on football focus on bbc one today at 12.10pm and reading ’s semi-final with arsenal live on bbc one from 5.05pm
welbeck talks to sportsmail 's martin keown ahead of arsenal 's fa cup semi-final against reading martin keown : you ’ve played at wembley many times and you ’ve played in a semi-final as well but you ’re now one step away from an fa cup final
does that bring extra nerves ? welbeck : not really
against reading today is going to be another tough game
welbeck expects a tough test as arsenal face a championship side at wembley for the second year in a row keown : how are you settling in ? you seem to have been here all your life almost and you ’ve only been here seven or eight months
welbeck : the staff at the club , at the training ground and everyone has been very welcoming
the arsenal striker thinks he has been unlucky in front of goal , but wants to play in a more central role keown : you talk about goals , you ’re playing in a wide position
what ’s your favourite position ? welbeck : it ’s no secret i prefer to play down the middle
but the formation we play at arsenal , you ’re playing on the left or the right
it ’s much easier doing that than playing left midfield or left wing in a four - man midfield
what ’s the area that he ’s working on most with you most of all ? welbeck : we talk about the game , we analyse performances and on the training pitch we ’ve also got the other staff here so after training we do a bit of individual work so that happens every day
welbeck , who says he has been made to feel very welcome at arsenal , holds of nacho monreal in training keown : is it your movement he works on ? is it holding up the ball ? finishing ? or is it a combination ? welbeck : it ’s a combination of everything
keown : does that become competitive ? to see who can score the most goals ? welbeck : yeah it does ! it gets competitive but it ’s obviously all fun
like his team - mate theo walcott , welbeck is often forced out wide , despite preferring being a central striker keown : in the last round you put out manchester united
how did it feel to score at old trafford ? welbeck : it was a weird occasion for me going to back to old trafford on the away side
obviously i was going back to a club that brought me up and going back to the fans that supported me for years , playing against old team - mates , my old friends , it was a weird occasion
the english international scored the winning goal on his return to old trafford in the quarter finals last month keown : did it cross your mind not to celebrate ? welbeck : leading up to the game i had no plans whatsoever
i just wanted to play the game , get it over and done with and get through to wembley and get to the semi-final
keown : against manchester united you seemed extra motivated
was it anything to do with louis van gaal ’s comments before the match ? welbeck : i did n’t see the comments
playing against manchester united – i did it earlier in the season at the emirates – and then it was a bit different this time going back to old trafford
welbeck celebrates in front of his old fans , a decision he says was entirely spur of the moment keown : i think you showed a lot of mental strength going into that situation
welbeck : you ’ve got to be strong mentally living the life and being a professional footballer
the striker has quickly become a favourite at the emirates , and he thanked the fans for their support keown : this weekend it ’s reading
have you looked much at their team ? welbeck : you get to watch a few games throughout the season
the gunners forward picked out pavel pogrebnyak as one of reading 's most dangerous players keown : how much would it mean to you to get to the fa cup final ? welbeck : it would mean a lot