kim kardashian continued her tour of the tour of the holy land with husband kanye and their daughter north , as she visited the site of jesus christ 's crucifixion
on monday , she took her family to jerusalem 's old city - the reputed location of the historical religious event - to visit armenian church saint james cathedral in order to baptise their little girl
and , clearly overwhelmed and honoured by the pilgrimage , kim kardashian took to instagram to share a couple of pictures from inside the holy building
' good morning jerusalem ! we woke up really early to see the site where the crucifixion of jesus christ took place , ' she wrote
the image showed the ornate interior of the 12th century church , which sits in the armenian quarter of the city , the capital of israel
family time : another picture posted on kim kardashian 's instagram showed her and husband kanye crouching under the statue of jesus christ a second shot posted on the reality tv star 's instagram page showed herself and kanye crouching under the statue of jesus christ on the crucifix , although as it was heavily filtered , the showbiz couple were hard to see
archbishop shirvanian , an armenian church official , revealed the family had arrived for a baptism ceremony
surprise stop : kim kardashian , kanye and north arrived early on monday in jerusalem for north 's baptism special visit : kanye and north at the armenian saint james cathedral in jerusalem 's old city sacrament : archbishop shirvanian , an armenian church official , confirmed north 's baptism ' kim kardashian 's daughter will be baptized and become a christian officially and a member of the armenian church , ' shirvanian said , slightly perplexed by all the commotion
' a source tells e ! that khloe , who attended the ceremony wearing sneakers and ripped jeans , is north 's godmother while the priest acted as her godfather ( while uncommon , it is an option where there is n't one )
vip treatment : the family were escorted out of the church by a priest tight security : the group were surrounded by guards no heels today : kim kardashian wore sensible flat sandals for the ceremony the insider described the ceremony as ' so special '
protective dad : the rapper left the church after the ceremony with his daughter in tow taking in the sights : the group explored the historic church holy land visit : the family are in jerusalem for what was described as a private two - day visit family affair : khloe kardashian was also on the trip , and acted as north 's godmother cuddles with mom : the reality star carried her daughter into the church all were captured on camera disembarking their plane and the images featured prominently on israel websites
the kim kardashian entourage arrived from a high - profile visit to armenian , where the kim kardashian family traces its roots
kim kardashian tweeted : ' i 've learned on this trip how many talented armenian musicians we have ! what an incredible night ! ! ! ! going to miss it here ! ! ! thank you to everyone who came out last night to see kanye perform ! ' the reality tv star 's armenian trip had been very well - documented on the social media website , as she posted pictures of her , her sister khloe , and cousins kourtni and kara , meeting the armenian prime minister , as well as the two sisters having an ' emotional day ' at the genocide museum - which they were visiting for a documentary they 're filming about the armenian genocide