an obsessive arsenal fan made his girlfriend sit a test quizzing her about his favourite football club
saskia posted snaps of the test to her twitter account , @ saskiaisabxlla , commenting ' boyfriend made me take an @ arsenal exam ! ' with emoticons showing she did n't know whether to laugh or cry
saskia 's football fan boyfriend made her take an arsenal test and did n't dump her thanks to her a grade the test took the form of a school exam , with multiple choice questions , tables to complete , and ' in your own words ... ' section
saskia scored an impressive 87 per cent , but according to her unnamed boyfriend 's feedback she ' could have performed better on q17 ' , needs to ' learn all player positions ' and should understand that ' tottenham are scum '
who are our top 2 goalscorers of the season so far ? what was the scoreline for the 2014 fa cup final vs hull city ? what player scored the winning goal in the 204 fa cup final ? a ) olivier giroud b ) santi cazorla c ) aaron ramsey d ) per mertesacker why are arsenal the best team to ever grace english football ? questions put to her in the test included : ' what was the scoreline for the 2014 fa cup final vs hull city ? ' , ' what player scored the winning goal in the 2014 fa cup final ? ' ' name the starting 11 squad of this season in their relevant positions
saskia clearly knows how to keep her boyfriend happy , as she humoured his question of ' why are arsenal the best team to ever grace english football ? ' with the answer of ' they 've won many fa cups ' and ' thierry henry is a legend '
doh ! saskia struggled to name all 11 players of the starting squad and got confused on the player positions saskia 's boyfriend drew an angry face when she got a question wrong - this man means business saskia kept her boyfriend happy with creative answers to his questions , and got double marks for some ... he was impressed with the end result , though , grading her an ' a ' and rewarding her by not ending their relationship
comments generally hailed the man as a ' legend ' and fellow football fans were impressed with saskia 's knowledge
some twitter users hailed the unnamed boyfriend who tested saskia on her arsenal knowledge as a legend scoring 87 % , football fans were impressed with saskia , claiming her as ' proper gf material ' may men felt inspired , with @ lewisxweeked warning his girlfriend to ' get revising ' indeed , @ gstarrs85 congratulated saskia and stating that she was ' proper gf material '
trimothy wants to put his girlfriend to the test , although apparently ca n't be bothered to create his own exam eduardo claims ' football fans are nuts ' despite appearing to be one as he holds what looks suspiciously like the fa cup in his hands ... some thought saskia 's boyfriend took things too far with @ dcslfc creatively naming him a ' biff - head '