the unofficial 2012 paperback book was revealed by a plaintiff in a lawsuit filed by four sexual - assault victims who want to stop the practice of sexual assault allegations within the military being handled by commanding officers
former tech. sgt. jennifer smith , who said she was sexually assaulted by a fellow airman in iraq , brought forward the songbook and she had filed an administrative complaint over the book in 2012
set to the tune of bye bye blackbird : back your a * * against the wall , here i come b * * * * and all , bye , bye cherry
the 130 - page songbook contains 70 songs with titles including pubic hair , the kotex song and bestiality
one of them , the s&m man , is set to the tune of the candy man and describes sexually mutilating women and dragging aids victims behind a bus
' the 130 - page songbook contains 70 songs with titles including pubic hair , the kotex song and bestiality one of the songs comes with the warning : ' this song is only for a very few sick people ! ! ! ! ' it is stamped with the playing - cards logo of the 77th fighter squadron , which is based at shaw air force base in south carolina
all will oversee airmen and sexual assault claims
retired air force col. don christensen , president of protect our defenders , an advocacy group for military sex assault victims told stars and stripes : ' this is something that is used by air force officers today
' these are the commanders who sing songs about raping women as fun
former tech. sgt. jennifer smith , ( pictured ) who said she was sexually assaulted by a fellow airman in iraq , brought forward the songbook and she had filed an administrative complaint over the book in 2012 air force spokeswoman capt. brooke brzozowske did n't comment on the lawsuit itself to abc news , but said the book was from 2012 , before the air force initiating a health and welfare inspections program where such materials would have been confiscated
she told stars and stripes that as a result of a 2012 six - month investigation there were 16 allegations against eight officers at shaw air force base who failed to prevent or investigate sexual harassment , condoned or refused to remove sexually offensive material and tolerated on - duty alcohol consumption
in 2014 there were nearly 6,000 victims of sexual assault in the u.s. military this year , up eight per cent from last year , according to a study
congress continues to press for an overhaul of the military justice system to change the way that sexual assault cases are handled .