what the nation needs is more geniuses
so said robert streeter and robert hoehn , two self - styled intelligence experts in the thirties , who set out to discover clever people by publishing a book posing devilishly difficult brain - teasers for members of the general public
now their book has been republished and here we offer you a selection of its tortuous tests — so you can discover if you are a genius ... a book designed to discover clever people in the 1930s has been republished and is full of tricky questions and brain - teasers
the answers can be found at the bottom of the page
rearrange the following letters so as to make the name of a living creature : b r i n o 2
four men can build four boats in four days
how long will it take one man to build one boat ? 3
test your memory on this passage : three men and their wives and a widower left by car at noon one day for a picnic
after they had gone three miles , they saw two men and a child in another car that had broken down
‘ that is tough luck , ’ said one of the picnickers
at 1 pm they arrived at the picnic grounds , where they saw only the old one - armed caretaker and his son
they immediately started to eat their luncheon of sandwiches , fruit and cake
question : how many people have been mentioned ? 4
which is heavier , milk or cream ? 5
what one word means both ‘ dodge ’ and ‘ immerse ’ ? 6
rearrange the letters in the word ‘ sleuth ’ to make another word
what word meaning ‘ ship ’ would mean ‘ small collections of water ’ if the letters were read backwards ? 8
if a clock is stopped for a minute every ten minutes , how long will it take the minute hand to complete a revolution ? 9
what adjective which means ‘ pertaining to citizenship ’ spells the same from right to left as it does from left to right ? 10
when seen in a mirror , which of the following words printed in capital letters will look the same as when viewed directly ? man toot deed 11
there is a monosyllable which , if you add to it a single letter , becomes a word of three syllables
what is it ? 12