according to a woman who is apparently against the preachings of caldwell , the st. louis man got his just desserts
the 21 - year - old became somewhat infamous late last year for video of him screaming ' i do n't like mens no more - i like women , women , women ! ' after a pastor at an evangelical megachurch claimed to have cured his homosexuality
caldwell hit headlines in november after the footage surfaced of him being ' delivered ' by god
but he says he was attacked by an employee at a froyo in delmar on wednesday after the cashier recognized him
however stephanie diaz said he demanded a discount and called her a ' dog ' heated confrontation over frozen yogurt : caldwell was covered in froyo , and said his bowl was extra large megachurch star : caldwell in a still from a video of him speaking during a church of god in christ convention in st. louis last year , where he infamously said he ' do n't like mens no more ' caldwell claims the employee recognized him from his video at the church of god in christ 's 107th holy convocation
however the employee , stephanie diaz , says caldwell is a liar
in an interview with the same tv station , stephanie diaz said caldwell demanded a discount for his yogurt
when she did n't relent , he called her a ' dog ' and a ' b --- - ' , stephanie diaz said
' ' i lost it ' : stephanie diaz , who is openly gay , admits to throwing the yogurt at caldwell , but said he is lying about his story scene : the incident occurred wednesday at his froyo store in delmar , st. louis comfortably straight : caldwell , seen here in a recent photo from his facebook page , happily announced last year that god had cured his homosexuality and that he had been ' delivered ' cctv footage released of the incident shows caldwell throwing money at stephanie diaz
stylish : caldwell is pictured here dressed in head - to - toe designer clothing on his facebook page caldwell says he is considering suing stephanie diaz and froyo
in he video of caldwell being ' delivered ' that went viral , he announces into the microphone : ' i ’m not gay no more ! i am delivered ! i do n’t like mens no more ! i said i like women ! women , women , women ! i said women ! i ’m not gay ! i will not date a man ! i will not carry a purse ! i will not put on makeup ! i will love a woman