obama has issued a warning to motorists in the washington d.c. area that her eldest daughter is now a licensed driver who is sometimes allowed to go out driving on her own
' i 've got a driver — a 16 - year - old driving around , ' the first lady said during an appearance on live ! with kelly and michael broadcast from the white house on monday
' look out washington d.c. , ' she joked
although malia receives protection from the secret service , mrs. obama revealed that she does get to drive outside the white house grounds on her own
at a recent appearance on live ! with kelly and michael , obama paired a 3.1 phillip lim white wide leg pants with a green , white and black print blouse
her outfit choice is obviously comfort driven and perfect for spring ! along with the trendy monochrome color palette , the always stylish mrs obama also embraced the white hot trend of wide leg pants
so once she was legally permitted to drive on her own , she gets in her car , ' said mrs. obama
her eldest daughter 's newfound freedom had reminded the first lady that not having dirven herself in seven years she had forgotten how to
the first lady also discussed a time magazine article which named malia and sister sasha among the 25 most influential teens of 2014
' i do n't think anybody showed them that article , so do n't mention it ! ' ' they 're not influential ' : the first lady also jokingly dismissed a time magazine article which had named her daughters as influential teens president obama and the first lady greeted participants at the white house before the annual white house easter egg roll on monday tens of thousands of people gathered on the white house south lawn for the annual easter egg roll festivities which the president officially started by blowing on a whistle the first lady — who is celebrating the fifth anniversary of her let 's move ! campaign — also noted that both her teenager daughters are very familiar with the concept of sarcasm
' when they get a little snarky , i 'm like , ' oh , you sound like your dad ! '' tens of thousands of people gathered on the white house south lawn on monday for the annual easter egg roll festivities
this year 's theme is # gimmefive , which is part of mrs. obama 's campaign to try to get young people to be more active and lead healthier lives
monday 's events included sports and fitness zones , cooking demonstrations , and of course , the traditional egg roll
the egg roll is one of the longest - standing white house traditions
in 1878 , president rutherford b. hayes opened the white house grounds to local children for egg rolling
president obama , first lady obama , with dogs bo ( top ) and and sunny ( bottom ) , and the easter joined participants before the annual white house easter egg roll in washington d.c. on monday festive : the first family pictured outside alfred street baptist church in alexandria , virginia , after sunday 's easter service president in the house : obama can be seen to the right of the picture above worshiping on sunday the first family has kicked off this year 's easter celebrations on sunday with a visit to the alfred street baptist church in alexandria , virginia
appearing on jimmy fallon 's talk show this week , the first lady revealed that she and her husband will be performing a routine with so you think you can dance contestants on the front lawn of the white house during the annual easter egg roll
well wishes : obama tweeted this message to her thousands of followers on sunday morning