a spring snowstorm and icy roads caught colo. drivers by surprise friday , causing a 39 - vehicle pileup near boulder and other bad wrecks that shut down highways during the morning commute
no serious injuries were reported in the crashes on u.s. highway 36 between boulder and denver , but tow - truck drivers were kept busy hauling away damaged cars
a tow truck driver works to clear the scene of a multi-vehicle pileup on u.s. highway 36 , friday near boulder , colo. a car is stuck under a semi tractor trailer at the scene of a multi-vehicle pileup on u.s. highway 36 numerous crashes and spin outs on icy and snowy highways have closed portions of several interstates and highways in the denver and colorado springs area as well as the mountains ' my car was just sitting there on this little island on its own , ' she said
near fort carson , the colorado state patrol responded to a series of rush - hour crashes involving a total of nearly 20 cars
in the mountains , interstate 70 was temporarily closed after several trucks spun out on snowy vail pass
a tow truck driver works to clear the scene of cleanup on the pileup on drivers of damaged cars wait at the scene of a multi-vehicle pileup no serious injuries were reported in the crashes on u.s. highway 36 between boulder and denver , but tow - truck drivers were kept busy hauling away damaged cars and drought - weary californians , who ca n't expect much encouragement from mountains elsewhere in the west : snow that fills the colorado river is lagging , too , officials said friday
the colorado river supplies water to about 40 million people and 6,300 square miles of farmland in seven states , including californians
a driver stands amid vehicles involved in an accident on wrecked cars the rocky mountain snow that melts into the river does n't flow directly to californians and other downstream users
californians also gets water from the nevada range , where the snow cover was the lowest it has ever been in 65 years of record - keeping as of wednesday
' emergency personnel and tow truck drivers work to clear the scene of a multi-vehicle pileup a storm brought up to 11 inches of snow on thursday and friday to parts of the colo. mountains and foothills , but much of it fell east of the continental divide and will eventually melt into the south platte and arkansas rivers
the u.s. highway 36 drought monitor says 40 per cent of californians is in an exceptional drought , the most severe category , and another 25 per cent is in an extreme drought , the second-most severe
a pedestrian moves along a sidewalk while framed by branches covered with snow from a spring storm in denver a cows grazes as her calves lay next to her on a farm after a light snow , near eldorado springs , colo. , not far from a lagging colorado river gov. jerry brown ordered mandatory , statewide water cutbacks by cities and towns , aiming for a 25 percent cut in water use