activated charcoal is thought to act as a ' detox ' are you the first to jump on the latest food fad bandwagon ? do you regularly ' detox ' with a green tea or a wheatgrass juice ? or pack your diet full of flax seeds and acai berry - all in the hope of improving your cholesterol , preventing cancer and promoting weight loss ? every day across the world scientists publish countless studies into the health benefits of various foods
for example , acai berries have been linked to weight loss and cancer prevention , flax seeds are thought to help lower blood pressure and reduce the risk of heart disease , while coconut oil has been hailed as a weight loss aid
more recently charcoal , freekah , spiralizing and bone broth have emerged as the latest craze in healthy eating
each comes with its own promise , with claims of ' melting away fat cells ' , ' supercharging the metabolism ' , and ' regenerating and revitalising '
but what is the truth ? i am often asked in clinic about fad diets and products by patients , desperate to find a quick way to shift the pounds
some of these fads are clearly bonkers , with no scientific evidence to back them up
others have some basis in common - sense and may be worth including in the healthy , balanced , real - food appproach to eating that is the only way to succeed in the long term
i asked sophie claessens , our vavista dietitian , to pick the ' miracle ' foods from the fads ... activated charcoal due to its use by medical professionals in the effective treatment of toxic poisoning , some believe that taking active charcoal , often in the form of a capsule can ‘ detox ’ the body
however it ’s not as easy as that ; the charcoal will only remove certain poisons and only if they have recently been ingested and are therefore not yet absorbed
is it worth trying ? no. firstly , ‘ detoxing ’ is a word my colleagues and i do n’t agree with
we should be aiming for an everything in moderation approach rather than a ‘ binge - detox ’ cycle
secondly , activated charcoal has only been shown to be effective for acute poisoning such as certain drug - overdoses , not an accumulation of toxins over time
and what are these accumulated ‘ toxins ’ ? calories ? fat ? carbohydrates ? as far as we ’re concerned , all of these contribute to a healthy balanced diet - just do n’t overdo them
the spiraliser gadget turns various vegetables into spaghetti , helping to boost weight loss spiralizing this new gadget is getting everyone in a spin
take vegetables such as courgettes and carrots and turn them into low - carbohydrate ' spaghetti ' in just a few seconds
great to up your veg intake , increase your fibre intake and reduce your calorie intake , but is it really a healthy addition to the kitchen ? is it a healthy craze ? well , yes and no. we should all be aiming to get as much veg into our diet as possible as it provides us with a low calorie source of fibre , vitamins and minerals
if you ’re topping your spaghetti dish with spiralised veg or they ’re accompanying a meat and potato dish then go for it , have as much as you like
but using the spiraliser to replace carbohydrates in your diet can lead to tiredness , fluctuating weight patterns and poor concentration
fermented foods , including pickled cabbage , act as a probiotic - encouraging the growth of ' good ' bacteria so it seems right that we should treat them right by adding pre-biotics to our diet to encourage growth of the good bacteria and maybe try a daily probiotic which contain cultures of good bacteria to add to our gut population
fermented foods such as yoghurt , cheese and asian pickled ingredients such as kimchi ( pickled cabbage ) are an example of probiotics
taking a daily probiotic is also fairly easy in the form of a probiotic yoghurt or yoghurt drink
... but now a word of warning food fads are named such usually because they ’re an unsustainable fashion trend