in custody : doug hughes was put under arrest for his gyro - copter stunt homeland security secretary johnson has admitted that a gyro - copter flew 80 miles undetected and under the radar from gettysburg , pennsylvania to the lawn of the u.s. capitol on wednesday
reacting to the latest embarrassing security lapse at the white house and capitol , johnson pleaded for calm and resisted calls for sweeping changes
johnson confirmed that the pilot , florida postal worker doug hughes , was interviewed by the secret service almost two years ago
' johnson said his first reaction on hearing of the incident was to ask , ' what 's a gyrocopter ? ' the tiny , open - air aircraft landed without injuries to anyone , but the incident raises questions about how someone could be allowed to fly all the way from gettysburg , pennsylvania , right up to the capitol
doug hughes has said he was making the flight to publicize his concerns about the corrupting influence of money in politics , and deliver letters to all 535 members of congress on the topic
' scroll down for video approach : the small gyro - copter ( circled in red ) lands on the west lawn of the capitol in washington d.c. as members of the public walk by practice run : doug hughes flies his gyrocopter near the wauchula municipal airport in wauchula , florida prior to his ' insane ' stunt on wednesday preparation : doug hughes loads his gyro - copter onto a trailer before he flew it from gettysburg to washington d.c. johnson defended existing protocols for dealing with the restricted airspace over washington d.c. , federal buildings and monuments
just the day before , doug hughes caused a major security scare when he landed his gyro - copter on the u.s. capitol lawn - coming just seconds from being shot out of the sky
house homeland security panel chairman mccaul revealed that capitol authorities had doug hughes , 61 , in their sights and were prepared to open fire
it landed right in front , ' mccaul said about the flight which was undetected until authorities actually saw the craft approach
practice : doug hughes flys his gyro - copter near the wauchula municipal airport in wauchula , florida in march during a trial - run for his u.s. capitol stunt protest flight : doug hughes took off from an undisclosed location in washington d.c. and landed his gyro - copter on the west front lawn of the u.s. capitol building rush : a member of a bomb squad checks doug hughes ' gyro - copter after he had landed on the west front lawn of the u.s. capitol building however , doug hughes claims he informed the secret service and capitol police of his potentially lethal stunt into the no - fly zone , which was designed to draw attention to campaign finance reform and government corruption
' i do n't believe that the authorities are going to shoot down a 61 - year - old mailman in a flying bicycle , ' said doug hughes of the latest embarrassment for white house and capitol security
indeed , norad reported that they did not scramble any assets and were not informed of the flight until it had landed
security breach : the small helicopter sits on the west lawn of the capitol in washington d.c. after it landed in front of stunned bystanders on wednesday afternoon furious interest : members of the media converge near constitution avenue on capitol hill in washington d.c. ' i was scared to death they were going to kill him , ' michael shanahan said to the tampa bay times
' the mailman 's flight to raise awareness for campaign finance reform and donation caps caused the capitol to go into lockdown as stunned members of the public watched him land his single - seat gyro - copter around 2pm and breach the no-fly ' p56-zone '
' doug hughes , who has been planning his ' insane ' washington d.c. flight for two years was promptly arrested by police and fbi teams moved in quickly afterwards with bomb disposal robots
evidence : the illegally landed craft was piloted by florida mailman doug hughes to protest against government corruption and to promote campaign finance reform retrieval : people walk past the gyro - copter that was flown onto the grounds of the u.s. capitol on wednesday jewell , 72 , a tourist from statesville , north carolina , said the craft landed hard and bounced