google has been steadily revealing some of the biggest questions its users have typed into the search engine about 2016 presidential candidates
many of the questions focused on candidates ' ages and heights , according to the website
here are the q 's people are asking @ google about clinton in the past hour : ' search : one of the biggest questions about hillary clinton was about how old she is democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton poses for a photo with simpson college student mackenzie bills , center , after meeting with democratic party lawmakers at the statehouse the most popular question typed into google during that time period was asking how old clinton is
last monday , sen. rand paul ( r-ky ) announced he is seeking the oval office in 2016
' those included ' how tall is rand paul ? ' and ' how old is rand paul ? ' revealed : google politics tweeted last week what it said were ' related questions to rand paul ' after he revealed he is seeking the oval office in 2016 questions about rand paul included ' how tall is rand paul ? ' and ' how old is rand paul ? ' candidate : the top questions on marco rubio were ' how old is marco rubio ? ' and ' where was marco rubio born ? ' he is 43 years old and was born in florida to cuban immigrants republican senator from florida marco rubio walks near the senate chamber , on capitol hill in washington dcon 15 april rand paul is 52 years old
that day , google politics tweeted that the number one question for marco rubio was ' how old is marco rubio ? ' per the blaze , some related questions asked about ted cruz was ' where was ted cruz born ? ' and ' how old is ted cruz ? ' ted cruz was born in canada and is 44 years old some related questions asked about sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) were ' where was ted cruz born ? ' and ' how old is ted cruz ? ' the second-most popular question about the senator was ' where was marco rubio born ? ' marco rubio is 43 years old and was born in florida to cuban immigrants
per the blaze , some related questions asked about sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) was ' where was ted cruz born ? ' and ' how old is ted cruz ? ' ted cruz was born in canada and is 44 years old
daily mail online has reached out to google for more information on top searches on the candidates