all facebook users have them - those friends who are so in love with their newborn baby they clog up your news feed with constant doting updates
but one group of women were so fed up with their friend 's ' running commentary ' they went to the extreme measure of putting an anonymous letter in her mailbox demanding she give everyone ' a break '
jade ruthven , 33 , of perth , western australia , was shocked when she found the scathing note claiming to be from ‘ a few of the girls ’ , cruelly criticising her for posting photos of her six - month - old daughter addison on facebook
‘ jade , i have got together with a few of the girls and we are all so over your running commentary on your life and every single thing addy does , ’ the letter begins
‘ we all have kids that we are besotted with ... but we do n’t ram it down everyone else ’s neck ! ! ! ’ jade ruthven , 33 , of perth , western australia , was shocked when she found a scathing note criticising her for posting too many photos of her six - month - old daughter addison on facebook jade ruthven was devastated when she received the unsigned letter in her mailbox as the letter continues , the typos and punctuation become more intense and frequent
‘ she crawls off the mat – we don ” t care ! ! ! ! ! she ’s six months old – big deal ! ! ! ! ‘ stop and think – if every mother posted all that cr * p about their kid – i ’m sure you ’d get over it pretty quickly
’ the author claims the rant was written on behalf of everyone who views jade ’s facebook posts
‘ we all thought it might ease off after the first month but it has n’t , ’ the letter continues
’ the dental hygienist still does n’t know who was responsible for the letter
jade ca n’t think why anybody would feel the need to be so nasty jade and her husband ryan ( pictured with their daughter addison ) were both very angry but chose to try and see the funny side of the ridiculous letter jade sent the letter to comedian em rusciano , who posted it to her facebook page and described it as ' next - level mean ' in an opinion piece for news.com.au
for jade the letter came completely out of the blue and was like a slap in the face , particularly as she is a first - time mother trying to find her feet
jade and her friends responded by creating the hashtag # addyspam and cheekily posting a stream of photos of the beautiful bub on facebook - sending a strong message to the hateful author jade was accused of ' p * * * ing ' everybody off by posting too many photos of her baby daughter on facebook ‘ these people clearly have too much time on their hands to sit and chat about my facebook usage
’ the cruel nature of the letter spurred jade to stand up for herself
she has also vowed to continue to post photos of her treasured baby
’ jade says the attempt to shame and isolate her has ‘ backfired ’ , as she is ‘ feeling more loved and supported than ever ’ jade insists that not for one minute did she consider changing her behaviour on facebook
if they were they would know i would never take this lying down , start crying in the corner and then take myself off facebook
’ in fact my friends and i started a hashtag , # addyspam and posted pics of addy on facebook all night long ! ’ jade says the attempt to shame and isolate her has ‘ backfired ’ , as she is ‘ feeling more loved and supported than ever ’
’ facebook is a crucial tool for jade and ryan to share their daughter ’s life with their distant relatives
facebook is the only way they can really keep in touch
’ as a mother , jade knew she did n’t want to stoop to the bullies ’ level