a white german shepard puppy named lt.dan from south carolina born without his paw now has a new friend who understands his unique struggle
on monday the nine - week - old puppy was given to three - year - old sapphyre johnson who is missing both of her feet
' he 's just like me ! , ' the toddler exclaimed with joy the first time she ever saw a photo of lt. dan
the dog 's original owner karen riddle said that lt. dan , who was born with eight other puppies in a litter - and could have been euthanized
missing their feet : of the nine pups in the litter , lt. dan , named for the character in forest gump who lost his legs , was the only one missing a paw and sapphyre johnson had to have her feet amputated on monday , the nine - week - old puppy dan without a paw found a new home with sapphyre johnson , a toddler who lost both of her feet just like me ! : sapphyre johnson and lt. dan made fast friends on monday and the two will grow up together at sapphyre johnson 's family 's home in tennessee greenville online reports that the puppy was named after a character in the film forest gump who lost both of his legs
fellow breeders suggested to karen riddle when lt. dan was born that he should be put down because he might be too sick to live
different : lt.dan was the only one out of nine puppies who was born without a paw and fellow breeders suggested to his original owner that he be put down brilliant idea : rather than kill lt. dan because he was different , his original owner karen riddle suggested that he be placed in a home with a wounded veteran or special needs child playing and learning : ' in the future , i could see sapphyre at her first show - and - tell in school and she could bring in her dog and explain about her dog and herself , ' said an employee at shriner 's hospital shriner 's hospital gives prosthetics and orthopedic services to children under 18 no matter what their family 's income is
best friends : sapphyre johnson and lt. dan only just met but from the looks of it they are already best friends ' he 's a special dog and he 's going to a special child
' everybody loves dogs and they 'll want to know about her dog that 's special like her
' lt. dan , lt. dan , ' she called out to her new furry friend