the surrender of confederate gen. robert e. lee to union lt. gen. ulysses s. grant 150 years ago on thursday was a milestone event in the end of the civil war
thursday 's commemoration in appomattox , virginia , included a reenactment of robert e. lee 's last clash with ulysses s. grant 's troops and of the confederate surrender in a virginia farmhouse on april 9 , 1865
ahead of the battle reenactment , the boys of the confederate 11th virginia were a seemingly pretty cool bunch as those portraying union troops gathered several fields away at appomattox court house amid the rolling farm country dotted by neat brick buildings and white picket fences
days earlier that month , the union army had already smashed their way into the confederate capital of richmond , virginia
union forces ' attacked them vigorously ' in the hours before the official surrender , convincing robert e. lee the fight was over
' but in 2015 , a stoic ferree could n't contain his excitement when asked about his role in the 150th commemoration of robert e. lee 's surrender here , effectively ending the civil war 150 years ago on thursday
' the confederate re-enactors were a ragtag , mismatched group of heavy wool coats , ill - fitting trousers and more types of hats than a haberdashery
american civil war re-enactors portraying confederate artillery fire several of their cannons during the re-enactment confederate artillery re-enactors appear to work in threes to fire off each cannon
they cover their ears as the cannons blow re-enactors dressed as confederate troops fire their muskets in rows of two as more men gather behind in preparation to shoot civil war re-enactors acting as members of the north carolina 26th infantry leave the field of battle once the re-enactment is finished re-enactors acting as members of the north carolina 26th infantry carry their weapons and flag on their shoulders as they leave the battle field american civil war re-enactors dressed as union cavalry celebrate after defeating confederate troops at a re-enactment of the battle confederate and union forces clash during a re-enactment of the battle of appomattox station on wednesday as part of the 150th anniversary of the surrender of the army of northern virginia to union forces at appomattox court house , in appomattox , virginia union and southern re-enactors spent the night encamped in tents at appomattox court house national historical park
' this is part of what i like to call the armistice that was signed on april 9 , when gen. robert e. lee surrendered the army of northern virginia , ' he said
the two also wore bonnets as they watched union and confederate reenactors clash
confederate and union re-enactors clash as they battle with swords on horseback as part of the battle of appomattox courthouse re-enactment confederate and union re-enactors dressed in gear likened to what was worn during the civil war , 150 years ago as several people rode on horseback , they re-enacted the battle as records show it occurred in appomattox in april 1865 union re-enactors charge confederate troops on horses during a re-enactment of the battle of appomattox station on wednesday confederate re-enactors check their weapons during a re-enactment
the rufeners have been to other civil war commemorative events , but appomattox was the first in period costumes
' a confederate re-enactor rides her horse back to friendly lines so quickly that her hat , tied around her neck , flies off her head historical interpreter susan bowser , of kittanning , pennsylvania , pours water in a pan at the union camp next to the mclean house during preparations for the anniversary civil war re-enactor steve riggs , of charleston , south carolina , with the 2nd virginia cavalry , lets visitors pet his horse , jackson , before a re-enactment historical interpreter joe mcshane , of kittanning , pennsylvania , shows jeryl callahan , right , of lynchburg , virginia , and others a civil war era replica rifle during preparations for the anniversary this image provided buy the library of congress shows an artists rendering of the surrender of confederate general robert e. lee to union general ulysses s. grant at appomattox court house on april 9 , 1865 this april 1865 image provided by the library of congress shows federal troops in front of the appomattox court house near the time of confederate gen. robert e. lee 's surrender