two kayakers died , and another remains hospitalized in serious condition , after a sudden seattle storm with 35mph winds overturned their boats during a church - organized trip
mandi l. walkley , 39 , and jacob m. austin , 52 , were in the dungeness bay , where swells were as high as 3ft , for one to two hours before they could be rescued by the coast guard
william d. kelley , 50 , who was also rescued by the coast guard , has improved from critical to serious condition
mandi l. walkley , 39 , ( left ) and jacob m. austin , 52 , ( right ) died after a sudden storm in washington 's dungeness bay hit their church kayaking trip ' he 's got a tube down his throat , ' bowers , who is with the mountain view church in tumwater , told the seattle times
' fellow kayaker william d. kelley , 50 , remains hospitalized
his condition has improved from critical to serious mandi l. walkley , austin and kelley were part of a group of seven people who set out on saturday for an excursion along washington 's dungeness spit
according to sgt. moores of clallam county sheriff 's office , forecasts had predicted there would be stormy weather the day of the scheduled trip a week ago and that an advisory had been issued a day before
but , according to fellow kayaker dennis caines , the terrible weather ' came up all of a sudden ' and took the group by surprise
mandi l. walkley , austin and kelley were stranded in the water for one to two hours before they were rescused by the coast guard
they had been part of a group of seven that were kayaking along the dungeness spit ( pictured ) dennis caines , who was also on the trip , said the weather was calm as the group stopped at the new dungeness lighthouse ( pictured ) for lunch
but minutes after they got back in the water , the wind picked up at around 2.30pm , mandi l. walkley , austin and kelley were spotted by a lighthouse attendant , who notified the coast guard
according to moores , the lifejackets were n't enough to protect the kayakers from the dungeness bay 's cold water , which was measured at 49 degrees on the day of the accident
dennis caines and his wife linda , who were riding with the group in a tandem kayak , said that within 10 minutes of the wind picking up they could n't see anyone else in their group and mandi l. walkley 's mother janeen said her daughter ' always took precautions ' , even leaving her own kayaks at home to use the larger kayak designed for the sea
according to dennis caines , the group had known and liked mandi l. walkley and austin , neither of whom were part of the mountain view church - which organized the trip for both members and nonmembers