she 's in rehab now , but the big question remains : what exactly happened at the polo lounge at the swank beverly hills hotel that led to kim richards ' out of control behavior
the real housewife was arrested following an emotional breakdown after a heated exchange with the maître d ' at the swanky bar of the beverly hills hotel , daily mail online can reveal
in a downward - spiral , the 50 - year - old recovering alcoholic admitted to dr phil that she was drunk on the night of her arrest
scroll down for exclusive video help : kim richards is now in a malibu rehab , but the star was out of control when she was arrested at the beverly hills hotel
she tells all to dr phil in a show that will air tomorrow pouring her heart out : the reality star admits to dr phil that she had a glass of vodka at her daughter brooke 's house
' a two inch drink ? ' dr phil asks
' phil : ' was this in a five gallon paint can ? ' support system : three of kim richards ' four children , chad , 22 and kimberly , 20 , and brooke , 29 , who were there to support their mother the night ended with police officers dragging the kicking and screaming reality star out of a bathroom cubicle when she refused to come out because she was ' angry and frightened '
the explosive account of what happened on the night of april 16 has emerged in an emotional interview kim richards has given to dr phil that will air tomorrow
dr phil : if you ’re an alcoholic that has fallen off the wagon , you ’re at your daughter ’s house and all of a sudden you ’re in there pouring a drink , and then you roll into a bar at midnight , what , you ’re already drunk when you get there , why , why would you not order a drink ? kim richards : because … dr phil : why would you go to a bar if you ’re not going to order a drink ? why not go to a pancake house …
dr phil : you went to a bar ! kim richards : that ’s where i usually go
dr phil : you could have got a room , you could have gone into the lobby
kim richards : i was just gon na sit down for a few minutes and just — dr phil : in a bar ! she says she pulled in to the beverly hills hotel because she felt the glass of vodka she drank at her daughter brooke 's house kick in
but soon after arriving at the famed hotel , kim richards was asked to leave by the maître d ' at the polo lounge after he claimed the wobbly real housewife began harassing two strangers at the bar
the former child star turned real housewife claims she drove to the beverly hills hotel at midnight on april 16 after drinking a large glass of vodka
dr. phil : did you order a drink when you got there ? kim richards : i did not
dr. phil : who said trespassing to you ? kim richards : the waiter
dr. phil : and i go over to their table and start talking to them and i 'm just chatting them up but it 's enough that the maitre d ' in a bar , which is a social scene comes over and says – kim richards : when people drink – dr. phil : ' you need to go back over to your table here because … ' kim richards : right
tarnished star : kim richards leaving the beverly wilshire hotel in beverly hills hotel , where she had an emotionally - charged interview with dr phil
her sister kathy hilton is seen behind scene of the crime : kim richards pulled into the hotel because she was feeling the effects of the glass of vodka she drank
last week we revealed how embattled kim richards stormed out of the dr phil interview , broke down in tears and went into full meltdown
but kim richards apparently snubbed dr phil 's offer of help as eyewitnesses in the hallway heard her scream ' f * * * ' , and other obscenities when she ran out of the room and down the hall
tmz reported that kim richards entered a malibu rehab facility over the weekend
dr phil 's interview with kim richards is set to air tomorrow , april 28 , her first for a national audience since the arrest .