but not all eyes were on the pitch for the whole 90 minutes , as the german club 's manager guardiola broke the highly dramatic atmosphere with a moment of sartorial comedy
' guardiola would n't be the only famous face guilty of stepping into a suit that is a little on the snug side
the current trend for wearing a whistle and flute that is at least a size too small , presumably to showcase a well - honed physique , has seen plenty of stars sail a little close to the wardrobe malfunction wind
yes , it 's officially a wardrobe malfunction ... but has guardiola simply fallen foul of wearing a suit that is a little on the snug side ? blame 007 : daniel craig wore a close - fitting tom ford suit in 2012 james bond movie skyfall ... and thousands of men followed the trend and breathe ! if david beckham gets the snug look just right , his fellow essex boys , including jeff brazier ( pictured right ) are guilty of going a little too tight the rock star 's take on the whistle and flute : harry styles does n't bother with a jacket but his trousers are certainly skinny , while russell brand goes for a second ( snake ) skin with his casual version of the suit king of the second skin ! dermot o'leary rarely wears a suit that could be described as roomy the trend for a tighter fit has emerged in recent years with ' skinny ' , ' slim ' and ' heritage ' fits all offering a snugger - looking silhouette
during his just - ended eight - year reign on the x factor , dermot o'leary 's suits have got progressively smaller , seeing him once forced to reach for a safety pin moments before presenting the live show
dermot o'leary said at the time : ' i remember having a wardrobe malfunction on the x factor
' i had this tight - fitting alexander mcqueen suit and felt the trousers rip … from pole to pole , shall we say
not much room to give ! olly murs , who split his trousers on stage in sheffield in 2012 , sails close to the wind again here while performing at the v festival in 2013 a thigh - ful ! towie stars dan osborne and joey essex are both partial to leaving little to the imagination when it comes to formal wear edward smith , head of brand for the company said : ' the skinny look has taken over everyone 's wardrobe , regardless of gender
' men have been wearing tight t - shirts and shirts for a while now - our best - selling shirt is now an extra slim one
' remember , men do n't want to look great at the weekend and then put on a baggy old suit for the working week
' other stars who 've fallen foul of their own outfits exposing them include fellow x factor presenter olly murs , whose penchant for clothes that show off his best assets saw his trousers split as he performed on stage at sheffield arena in 2012
what do the fashionistas make of the super-snug suit ? fashion blogger simon glazin is n't convinced by the current trend
us men with ' real ' bodies need suits that do n't feel restricting
' let 's hope guardiola , dermot o'leary and olly murs are reading .