former secretary of state hillary clinton got her budding presidential campaign 's first targeted question about the deadly 2012 benghazi terror attacks on tuesday night , and her answer was the sound of one hand clapping
' mrs. hillary clinton , when are you going to start talking to the press about benghazi ? ' daily mail online asked her in the washington reagan national airport
' did you make mistakes ? ' the usually garrulous and broad - smiling clinton stared straight ahead , continued walking alongside her secret service and local police escorts , and said nothing
the islamist terror group ansar al-shariah 's military - style benghazi attacks will likely be a thorn in clinton 's side throughout the 2016 presidential campaign season
a special congressional committee chaired by south carolina gowdy rep. gowdy , a former criminal prosecutor , has a mandate to investigate the episode through january 2017 , making it unlikely that clinton will be able to put the issue behind her
trouble ahead : new hampshire resident brian blackden included ' benghazi blood ' tuesday on a sign listing reasons ' hillary clinton is a liar , ' near the site of a clinton appearance at the new hampshire technical institute on sunday during a series of 50 brief interviews with dartmouth college students in hanover , new hampshire , 22 of them made references to bengahzi when asked about clinton 's chances of becoming president
' not forgotten : u.s. ambassader the libya chris stevens was the first to die in benghazi , and was seen by libya as a moderate – angering anti-american hardliners from radical islamist groups casualties : u.s. foreign service information management officer sean smith ( left ) , glen doherty ( center ) and u.s. nacy seal tyrone woods ( right ) perished in the ansar al-shariah attacks in benghazi four u.s. lost their lives in the september 11 , 2012 terror attacks , including u.s. ambassador to libya chris stevens , the first u.s. ambassador killed while on duty since 1979
the four men came home in flag - draped caskets
congressional republicans want answers about clinton 's involvement in what they see as a potential cover - up of facts surrounding how the attacks unfolded and why – and how the obama administration explained it afterward , just weeks before an election
his committee said wednesday that its report on the benghazi attacks wo n't likely be finished until 2016 , putting its release squarely in the middle of the presidential campaign 's most hotly contested months
' clinton 's state department infamously declined to provide her benghazi outpost with the beefed - up security presence its station chief requested in the weeks preceding the deadly ansar al-shariah attacks
first class : hillary clinton ( seated at the front , right ) traveled in luxury from boston to washington , seated next to chief of staff huma abedin , after am 80 mph secret service dash to logan international airport farewell : hillary clinton waved at the end of her final campaign stop in new hampshire on tuesday , before hitting the road to boston for the same washington - bound flight that daily mail online flew on in the days following the attacks , clinton said publicly that it was the result of a spontaneous protest over a youtube video made by an u.s. – a film that insulted the muslim prophet muhammad
such protests were seen in other muslim countries , but u.s. intelligence determined in real - time that the benghazi attacks were well - organized and easily traced back to an islamist terror network
just days earlier , lawmakers disclosed that a top u.s. diplomat told them ' everyone ' at the u.s. diplomatic outpost in benghazi knew ' from the beginning ' that they were in the middle of a terrorist attack