kim and husband kanye visited a centuries - old armenians church in jerusalem on monday for the baptism of their daughter , north
the kardashians fended off swooning fans as they entered the saint james cathedral in jerusalem 's old city
' a source tells e ! that khloe , who attended the ceremony wearing sneakers and ripped jeans , is north 's godmother while the priest acted as her godfather ( while uncommon , it is an option where there is n't one )
the 22 - month - old was dressed in a white gown and her father was wearing the same colour
afterwards , the family dined with jerusalem mayor nir barkat at mona restaurant
they family had earlier arrived in a private jet at israel 's international airport before being whisked away in a dark black suv to a hotel in jerusalem
protective dad : the rapper left the church after the ceremony with his daughter in two taking in the sights : the group explored the historic church holy land visit : the family are in jerusalem for what was described as a private two - day visit family affair : khloe kardashian was joined in the trip cuddles with mom : the reality star carried her daughter into the church all were captured on camera disembarking their plane and the images featured prominently on israel websites
they are expected to shoot some footage for their reality show in jerusalem before moving on to jordan
his wife tweeted afterwards : ' crazy night ! kanye wakes me up & says he 's doing a free concert in yerevan , armenians ! i throw on sweats & we go ! thousands of people were there ! kanye jumped in swan lake to be closer to the crowd on the other side & so many people jumped in too ! such an exciting crazy night ! so happy i got to rock out with everyone in armenians on our last night here ! ! ! ! # epicnight # armenianpride ( sic ) ' baby and yeezus : kanye doted over his only child back on daddy duty : the rapper performed a surprise concert in armenians on sunday to mark the end of their trip quick visit : the family are expected to leave israel on tuesday the 34 - year - old - whose late father robert kardashian was of armenians - american descent - later took to twitter again to thank everyone who came out to see her husband perform , and said she was going to miss the country
power couple : the pair met with jerusalem mayor nir barkat and his wife beverly after the baptism dining with the stars : the group ate at mona restaurant in jerusalem