a cat who went missing after escaping a damaged crate after 14 - hour flight from abu dhabi to new york about last week has been found
felix was discovered at jfk airport after being on the loose for more than two weeks
the cat 's owners , jennifer stewart , 31 , and her 34 - year - old husband , joseph , were left devastated after their beloved pet when missing from his damaged crate
jennifer stewart and husband , joseph , pictured with their cat , felix , who disappeared april 1 facebook updates : ms jennifer stewart updated her friends after hearing the news that felix the cat had been found the couple had launched a desperate search for their pet after he disappeared following a 14 - hour flight from abu dhabi to new york
felix the cat was missing for more than two weeks after he escaped from his crate , which was damaged in transit
found ! felix the cat was discovered at jfk airport after being on the loose for more than two weeks the releaved couple were alerted that a cat had been been found at the new york airport the couple updated their facebook profiles to announce the good news
they wrote : ' felix has been found ! ! ! we got word earlier this evening that a cat had been humanely trapped in the area the scent dogs in last week 's search were most interested in ... and the cat is felix ! ! ! ! ' jennifer stewart later added : ' joe picked him up at jfk airport and they are on their way home to princeton right now
so happy ! ! ! ! thanks to everyone for your help and positive energy these last two weeks ! we 're incredibly grateful for such love & support ! xo ' jennifer stewart and joseph never gave up hope and planned to return to the airport to search for felix the couple was told that the plastic crate broke open after one of the ropes became tangled on something at the time of the disappearance , jennifer stewart had told mailonline travel that she was n't satisfied with the way felix 's crate was secured and transported on the etihad flight
' felix 's plastic pet carrier was tied down to a metal pallet while he was transported on the plane felix the cat disappeared after his crate was damaged after a flight from abu dhabi to new york while in abu dhabi she had spent weeks researching the best way to transport felix and she initially booked a ticket with a different airline , but there was a problem with the reservation and she was forced to switch to their flight and felix 's to etihad
the couple adopted the two - year - old cat seven months ago after he was abandoned in their neighbourhood jennifer stewart and joseph have enlisted the help of a non-profit organisation to locate the cat at jfk airport the couple never gave up hope that felix would be found , and sought help from a non-profit organisation , where is jack ? , which provided a dog that is trained to track down animals based on their scent
the spokesperson said : ‘ we are working with the ground handlers and other third - party specialists , paid for by etihad , to locate the cat
etihad said it is working with ground handlers and ' third - party specialists ' to find the cat ‘ we deeply regret this unfortunate incident and are keeping the owner apprised of the progress of the search