a photographer and mother - of - two has turned a collection of candid images of her energetic daughters and their friends into a powerful photography series that celebrates their strength and confidence , while highlighting what it means to be a girl today
kate t. parker , from atlanta , georgia , was inspired to create her aptly - titled series strong is the new pretty while pouring over photos she snapped of her daughters ella , nine , and alice , six , playing sports and enjoying their childhoods
summer breeze : atlanta - based photographer kate t. parker captured this group of girls cooling off in front of a fan for her photo series strong is the new pretty serious athlete : kate t. parker snapped these pictures of her daughter ella , nine , before her first triathlon ( l ) and while she was playing soccer ( r ) team spirit : as a part of the powerful series , ms kate t. parker photographs her daughters and their friends playing sports ms kate t. parker continued : ' there 's a lot of pressure for girls - and women - to look a certain way , act in [ a ] certain manner , and i wanted to let my daughters know that who they naturally are is enough
' the images changed , ' ms kate t. parker explained
' water world : ms kate t. parker snapped this shot of the girls while they were enjoying a swimming session feeling strong : kate t. parker 's daughter and her soccer teammates posed against a brick wall for this powerful shot hot wheels : ms kate t. parker 's daughters can be seen riding around their neighborhood sisterly love : these young girls embraced while wearing matching uniforms wild woman : this little girl let out a delightful scream as she ran through sprinklers in her bathingsuit she kept that idea in mind as she continued to shoot her daughters and their friends
the images of ella , alice , and their friends are black and white and free of frilly dresses , dolls or anything else stereotypically associated with young girls
instead , ms kate t. parker captured the girls playing sports , running through sprinklers and horsing around , essentially exploring their everyday adventures
girl fight : ms kate t. parker photographed her girls horsing around and playfully fighting like sisters typically do powerful gaze : ms kate t. parker got close - up for this candid snapshot peek-a-boo : these four girls can be seen posing inside a cardboard cutout uphill battle : this little girl rides her bike wearing a swimsuit and a helmet ms kate t. parker added : ' they do n’t need to have their hair done , clothes matching , or even be clean to be loved or accepted ... i wanted this series of images to show their boldness , their strength and the beauty in them , as they are
' ms kate t. parker added : ' but i encourage everyone to document their own kids the way they see them
' getting clean : the two girls give their dog a bath in this humorous shot keeping pace : ms kate t. parker captured her daughter running a race hideout : ms kate t. parker snapped this photo of her daughter and her dog peeking their faces out of their play house animal instinct : the girls chose to stick their heads out the window while their dog remained inside when the today show shared ms kate t. parker 's story on their facebook page yesterday , it was liked nearly 25,000 times and inspired hundreds of parents to post photos of their own daughters doing the things that they love
' underwater shot : these girls were snapped enjoying a day in the pool all wet : ms kate t. parker snapped her girls playing around with buckets of water so bored : ms kate t. parker 's daughters take a break after they went roller skating say cheese : four girls can be seen striking a pose inside a photo booth