but one australian woman got so sick of her friend 's constant updates about her baby daughter that she wrote her a scathing letter demanding the mother stop - claiming she is ' p * * * * * g a lot of people off '
ruthven , 33 , was so upset by the ' poison pen ' note that she got her own back by forwarding it onto comedian rusciano - who shared it with her thousands of followers on social media
but we do n't ram it down everyone else 's neck ! ! ! ' she wears a new outfit - well take a photo and send it privately to the person who gave it to her - not to everyone ! ! ! ' she crawls off the mat - we do n't care ! ! ! ! ! she 's 6 months old - big deal ! ! ! ' stop and think - if every mother posted all that c * * p about their kid - i 'm sure you 'd get over it pretty quickly , ' we ca n't wait for you to get back to work - maybe you wo n't have time to be on facebook quite so much
' the letter claims to show what ' people really think ' about mother ruthven 's constant facebook updates , adding : ' we ca n't wait for you to get back to work - maybe you wo n't have time to be on facebook quite so much '
ruthven says the attempt to shame and isolate her has ‘ backfired ’ , as she is ‘ feeling more loved and supported than ever ’ the dental hygienist still does n’t know who was responsible for the letter
ruthven ca n’t think why anybody would feel the need to be so nasty after saying they think the offending child is ' gorgeous ' and they ' love her ' , the writer continues - adding that ms ruthven is ' p * * * * * g a lot of people off '
' we all thought it might ease off after the first month , but it has n't ' , it adds
' for ms ruthven the letter came completely out of the blue and was like a slap in the face , particularly as she is a first - time mother trying to find her feet
never in my wildest dreams did i expect what was in it ! ’ ruthven told daily mail australia
ruthven and her husband ryan ( pictured with their daughter addison ) were both very angry but chose to try and see the funny side of the ridiculous letter ‘ my husband ryan was just as angry as me but we soon decided to laugh it off as a bad joke
’ the cruel nature of the letter spurred ruthven to stand up for herself
‘ but it takes a lot more to keep me down than a nasty letter ! ’ however , ruthven wants the coward author to know their nasty act has not brought her down
‘ no way did i feel self - conscious or consider changing my online activity , ’ laughs ruthven
’ rather , it is an opportunity for her to set an example for her daughter and support other new mothers ruthven was accused of ' p * * * ing ' everybody off by posting too many photos of her baby daughter on facebook comedian rusciano wrote an 870 - word opinion piece about the letter for australian website news.com.au , after ruthven sent it to her through facebook
questioning why the offended women did n't just speak to ruthven or ' unfollow ' her on facebook , ms rusciano said : ' it ’s not like she busted into their houses armed with life - size portraits of her child dressed as a tiny adorable pumpkin and demand that they be hung on every wall
worthy of an anonymous poison pen situation , no. ' ms rusciano added the ' mean ' letter represents the ' holy trinity ' of anxiety
' it honestly does n’t feel as though “ the girls ” just wanted ruthven to change a particular behaviour , ' it feels as though they wanted her to feel c * * p about herself