from the lack of sleep to breastfeeding , becoming a mother for the first time is no mean feat. one new mother decided to start a blog called upfront mama detailing the trials and tribulations of raising her little girl poppy , 14 months , who , she says , is the best and most life changing thing that has ever happened to her
like so many new mothers , nicola bonn , 34 , from london was learning on the job and found the whole experience ' exciting yet utterly petrifying '
one of her blog posts , why we need to stop justifying ourselves , went viral - no doubt thanks to her candid account of bringing up a baby for the first time
here , she shares it with femail ... ' since becoming a mama i ’ve spent way too much time explaining myself and almost apologising for my decisions and i ’ve decided that it has to stop
' the problem is that when you have a baby , everyone has an opinion and they ’re often not afraid to air it which can be quite overwhelming for a new mother who is less experienced than the ' advice giver ' and is most probably filled with high levels of self doubt
nicola bonn , 34 , wanted to share all the things that she had learnt so that fellow mothers would n’t feel as ' clueless ' as she did , and admits that since becoming a mother , she 's spent way too much time explaining herself and almost apologising for her decisions - and she 's decided that it has to stop she believes one of the main hurdles is that everyone has an opinion and they 're often not afraid to air it , which
she says , can be quite overwhelming for a new mother who is less experienced ' over the past year , countless people have questioned decisions that i have made
nicola bonn often finds other mothers saying to her : ' you encourage her to play with her food ? is n't that encouraging bad manners ? ' but says she has to believe in the choices that she makes on a daily basis because if she starts doubting herself then it wo n't do anyone any good … least of all poppy ' yes , i sometimes rock her to sleep because she loves it and it helps her to settle
it ’s not as if she ’s actually licking the floor … well even if she does it ca n’t be as bad as the toddler who licked the loo brush in mc donalds and he did n’t die did he ? ' why do i do this ? why ca n’t i just believe in my instinct and decisions ? none of them have been taken lightly , there is a reason for all of them and as a mother , i have to believe in the choices that i make on a daily basis because if i start doubting myself then it wo n’t do anyone any good … least of all poppy
nicola bonn says that the next time women feel judged for a decision that they have made concerning their child , they should n't explain themselves because , after all , they know their child better than anyone else does ' i ’m the first person to ask for advice when i need it and i often do
it creates a magical bond amongst us that makes you proud to be a female and more importantly a mother
but , there is a difference between kindly passing on wisdom and questioning and judging fellow mamas