an armed man has been arrested after kidnapping a woman , shooting and killing u.s. census bureau guard and leading police on a car chase before authorities cornered him in an exchange of gunfire that left him and a police officer wounded
anderson , 48 , who was charged in the crime spree , was previously convicted of manslaughter and recently was arrested in an assault case involving his ' visibly afraid ' girlfriend , according to court documents obtained on friday
anderson was arrested february 17 on a charge of assaulting his girlfriend in the washington , suburb of prince george 's county , according to court records
the woman , whose 10 - month - old son was home , told police that anderson had hit her several times , knocking her into walls , because he thought she was looking at another man , the records say
another court record filed in d.c. superior court shows that anderson pleaded guilty to manslaughter while armed in 1991 in washington no other details were immediately available about that case
he has been charged with armed kidnapping and assault on a police officer in thursday 's spree but remains hospitalized in unknown condition
the officer and suspect , who has not been named , were both conscious when they were taken for medical care , d.c. police chief cathy lanier told a news conference police search a parking garage on the u.s. census bureau headquarters campus for the armed man the wounded officer is recovering
the u.s. census bureau guard who was shot , lawrence buckner , 59 , died at a hospital in cheverly , maryland , at 7.19pm thursday
d.c. police chief cathy lanier told a news conference a guard at a gate of the u.s. census bureau in suitland , maryland , saw two people fighting in a car that matched the description of a vehicle described in a report of an armed kidnapping about six miles away in northeast washington
the shooting was not terrorism - related , fbi baltimore spokeswoman amy j. thoreson told the associated press in an email
the police chief confirmed that officers guard the u.s. census bureau building after reports that a federal officer had been shot cornered , the suspect opened fire again and police shot back
' we have every reason to believe that the car we have ... is the same car involved ' in the kidnapping , the shooting at the u.s. census bureau , and the shooting at police , lanier said
police said in a news release that the woman who was allegedly kidnapped was found safe
the gate that leads to u.s. census bureau remains closed where a guard was shot and killed on thursday the shooter then led police on a car chase through maryland and washington , before being cornered and exchanging gunfire with and a police leaving one officer wounded