eight guards at nauru detention centre have been suspended after they posted anti-islamic messages on social media and were pictured with pauline hanson at a recent reclaim australia rally
detention centre operator transfield services said the employees – who are part of nauru 's emergency response team - were found to be contravening a company policy that they display ' cultural sensitivity '
nauru guards pictured with pauline hanson at the reclaim australia rally in brisbane earlier this month
from left : dan connors , cody allen , alan hartley , beau james , pauline hanson , graham motley , simon scott , a man who does not work on nauru , jamie scannell and harley levanic some of the guards were found to have posted on their facebook accounts promoting the controversial reclaim australia rallies – which were held around the country on april 4 to protest against islamisation and the influence of ' minorities ' and ' radical extremism ' in australia
in other social media posts some of the guards compared muslims to nazis while others accused companies with halal - certified products of supporting terrorism
' harley levanic posted an image of a new neck tattoo reading ' infidel ' with the caption ' who is next boys ? ' mr james appears in a facebook photo wearing a t - shirt bearing the ' infidel ' slogan , and on the day before the reclaim australia rally he commented on a post linking muslims to nazis with the comment ' see yas tomoz boys ! ! ! bring your pitch forks ' , the guardian australia reported
' fellow guard simon scott – whose facebook profile has now been deleted – posted messages slamming companies for carrying halal - certified products alan hartley shared a pro-military cartoon with a caption urging people to attend ' take back australia rallies ' alan hartley shared a pro-military cartoon with the caption : ' this picture shows why we all have to go to the take australia back rallies around the country before we lose what guys like these sacrificed their lives for that islam and its muslim extremists are trying so hard to disrespect and destroy ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! [ sic ] ' transfield services spokesman jamieson said the guards had all made social media posts that breached company policy , in addition to being pictured with pauline hanson
' the men are part of the ' emergency response team ' stationed at the detention centre on nauru ( pictured ) former immigration minister tony burke listens to asylum seekers during his tour of facilities in nauru in 2013