on a recent trip to paris , belgian food blogger van de ven enjoyed poking fun at those tourist clichés and took a couple of pictures deliberately missing some of the more famous monuments
since then over 100 photoshopped pictures have sprung up comically connecting his finger with the tip of the famous attraction , and it did n't stop there ... nailed it ! van de ven , 37 , uploaded this photograph on social media in a bid to poke fun of the typical tourist pictures going viral ! an upload on photo - sharing site 4chan requested users connect his finger with the top of the tower , as many tourist pictures aim to achieve the 37 - year - old said he thought it would be hilarious to deliberately make fun of the typical pictures with famous landmarks
created images ranged from the comical , with the 301m tower bent over to touch his outstretched finger , to the absurd , with van de ven imposed into michaelango 's the creation of adam , reaching out towards the eiffel tower
bendy tower ! the tower appears to have flopped over in the summer heat , making a connection with the food blogger 's finger cut out ! despite covering the 37 - year - old , his finger is clearly in contact in this picture ! expert photoshopping creates a miniature tower touching his finger , never mind about the gaping white hole left behind ! close enough ! tilting the tower 45 degrees , and extending his arm in an octopus fashion were methods used to ' improve ' the picture super hero ! in a hulk - like fashion , not only has van de ven knocked over the eiffel tower , but also has it grasped in two fingers van de ven is shocked but highly entertained at the widespread response to his holiday pictures
' eiffel tower touches van de ven ! this photo plays on role reversal with the tower spectacularly missing touching him basically there ! a longer arm is all it takes to recreate the popular tourist pose if in doubt , enlarge the poser ( left ) , or do as most people do and stand closer to the camera ! or why not create more failed fingers ( right ) to add to the picture ? why not just duplicate the offending failed finger all over the eiffel tower ? ( still without it making contact ! ) see double ! that works ! not only does he touch the top , he does it twice in this picture a portal has allowed the tip of the tower to protrude near the blogger 's feet so he can touch the tip why not ignore the failed hand all together , and just reposition it on top ? job done ! ( left ) or why not reverse the original photograph ? ( right ) so elegant ! the original pose has been imposed on a ballerina dancing on a studio another wondrous offering from the internet shows him expertly defending a basketball hoop the internet wins again ! van de ven ( as god ) reaching out for the eiffel tower ( as man ) in michelangelo 's famous painting , the creation of adam bullrilliant ! van de ven becomes a matador unperturbed by a bull with horns consisting of the eiffel tower