kansas is one signature away from telling poor families that it 's illegal to use their welfare payments to buy alcohol , tobacco and pornography , to visit strip clubs or tattoo shops , and to take vacation cruises or gamble on dog or horse races
swimming pools , jewelry and lingerie stores , psychics , movie theatre , nail salons , massage parlors , bars and theme parks will also be forbidden territory for the first time , if brownback gov. brownback signs a bill that hit his desk last week
the proposal would also give the force of state law to some of brownback 's policies , including one that requires ' temporary cash assistance ' recipients to hold down jobs , look for work or enroll in job training programs
no benefits : a pending kansas law would make it illegal for welfare recipients to spend their government - supplied stipends at strip clubs , among a laundry list of other places no ink : kansas welfare recipients who want taxpayers to shell out for their tattoos have until july 1 to experiment with the latest in body art partisan : kansas brownback gov. brownback ( center ) is likely to sign the new measure despite strong opposition from democrats kansans , like citizens of many other states , are issued debit cards when they register for state - based welfare
recipients would be limited , for the first time , to withdrawing $ 25 in cash per day
liberal lawmakers complained that some welfare recipients use their debit cards to get funds for rent payments
' necessities : tobacco will be added to the no - no list , along with movie tickets , cruise vactions and lingerie i see a job in your future : fortune tellers and psychics ? out
conflict : republicans state rep. kansas state rep. travis couture-lovelady ( left ) insists that getting welfare recipients ' back to work ' justifies the new law , while state sen. oletha faust-goudeau ( right ) called it ' ludicrous ' and ' outrageous ' but state sen. o’donnell , the republicans who gathered support for a kansas house bill putting all the changes into place , said public assistance should be spent ' more responsibly ' than it had been in the past
vicious circle ? benefits recipients were previously permitted to spend their government money to bail themselves and family members out of jail your tax dollars at work : until brownback became governor , welfare enrollees could buy liquor with their benefit debit cards , but now his policy is likely to become a law that future pols will find it hard to undo ' this is serious , good policy for the state of kansas , ' state rep. travis couture-lovelady , a palco republicans , told the associated press
' but democrats state sen. laura kelly countered in the capital-journal that ' we pat ourselves on the back that our tanf rolls have gone down exponentially and we say it ’s because all those people are now working , ' but ' we do n’t know that and i ’m guessing its not the truth