k9 : montville township police say its k9 officer , beny , died from injuries consistent with heat stroke , while in the back of a police vehicle in the parking lot of the police department on september 28 an ohio cop has been convicted of animal cruelty for letting his police dog roast to death in his patrol car last year
the montville township officer outraged the community when he left his two - year - old german beny in his squad car for four hours with the windows rolled up last september
on wednesday , judge dale m. chase ruled that brett harrison was guilty of one of two misdemeanor counts of animal cruelty
following beny 's death , brett harrison publicly apologized and said he had left the car running with his air conditioning on
he said he did n't mean to leave the dog in a hot car
when brett harrison returned to the cruiser after leaving him for four hours , he discovered the dog lying lifeless in the rear passenger compartment ’s kennel sgt. brett harrison cared deeply about beny
he worked with him 40 + hours a week and beny lived with sgt. brett harrison and his family when the two were off duty
he is said to be overwhelmed with grief brett harrison issued a statement expressing his ' deepest apology ' to montville township and to his ' partner , friend and loving family member beny
' a statement from the department also said that sgt. brett harrison cared deeply about beny
he worked with the dog more than 40 hour a week and beny lived with sgt. brett harrison and his family when the two were off duty
sgt. brett harrison was overwhelmed with grief and is taking this loss very hard , the chief added
sgt. brett harrison was found to have violated policy and procedures
he received a two - week unpaid suspension and a loss of 40 hours of vacation sgt. brett harrison did n’t leave the windows open and the cruiser was turned off ; the temperature at the time brett harrison arrived at the station was 69 degrees and it was 79 degrees when the dog was discovered police say sgt. brett harrison has been an exemplary officer who has never received discipline since being hired onto the department in 2007 sgt. brett harrison had been an exemplary officer who has never received discipline since being hired onto the department on sept. 11 , 2007
the prosecutor for the spca of medina county is reviewing the case to determine whether criminal charges should be filed against the officer