cities across the country are turning to green as they take part in annual st. patrick 's day parades
in the northeast , boston 's st. patrick 's day included two gay and lesbian groups for the first time on sunday
spirit : a man waves an irish flag in the chicago river on saturday music : a band wearing green hats and blazers walk along the parade route in raleigh , north carolina saturday alternative transport : a man rides past the crowds in raleigh , north carolina , on a unicycle over 33 million irish - americans are set to be involved in the festivities this year , abc7 chicago reported
according to the television station and wallethub , st. patrick 's day will see $ 4.6 billion in sales this year
around 13 million pints of guinness will be drunk , the abc affiliate reported
chicago river has followed its 32 - year - old tradition by dying the river green in front of thousands of people who traveled to the city from across the country
in americans these included pittsburgh , pennsylvania ; chicago river , illinois ; charlotte , north carolina ; raleigh , north carolina ; myrtle beach , south carolina ; atlanta , georgia ; dallas , texas ; salt lake city , utah ; and san francisco , california
social media : alex nowakowska left , and joanna puchlik right , both of chicago river , take a selfie after the chicago river is dyed green history : freddy murphy , of boston , front left , waves an irish flag while marching with the lgbt community advocacy group boston pride during the st. patrick 's day on sunday in boston pride : americans rep. seth moulton , d-mass. , center , waves while marching with members of outvets , a group of gay military veterans , as they , too , participated in the sunday south boston parade bagpipe brigade : the boston police gaelic column attended the sunday parade as well here we go ! spectators cheer during the st. patrick 's day , sunday in boston greetings : outvet founder bryan bishop ( left ) and veterans council 's brian mahoney ( right ) were at the parade boston 's st. patrick 's day made history sunday as two gay and lesbian groups marched after decades of opposition that went all the way to the americans supreme court
musical : new york shields pipes & drums marches during the 27th annual north myrtle beach st. patrick 's day parade and festival on saturday , in north myrtle beach , south carolina wet weather : heroes 4 hire marches along the streets in the rain in south carolina covered up : the rain would not dampen the spirits of these women playing kazoos in north myrtle beach procession : bagpipers were in attendance at the saturday parade held in atlanta , georgia cheer : a man in the crowd is see at the atlanta parade on saturday pet parade : a woman holds her cat - decked out in costume - for the atlanta parade snap : girls held their smartphones up while watching the atlanta festivities setting up : one man is seen in atlanta with a number of st. patrick 's day - related items for sale drink in hand : jerry o'bryan is seen standing in front of a west lafayette , indiana , bar form above : crowds gather along the parade route outside the gateway salt lake city , utah on saturday excitement : spectators lined the streets in lincoln , nebraska , during the build up to the procession streets painted green : the colorado rockies wished their fans a happy st. patrick 's day and posted a picture outside their coors field stadium in denver ahead of the saturday parade outfit : pittsburgh penguins player sidney crosby wore a green jersey on saturday the dallas mavericks social media team took a selfie in their holiday attire and posted it to twitter on saturday workers unloaded a truckload of portable toilets in pittsburgh in time for the celebrations on friday ready to run : thousands of enthusiastic , green - clad runners attended the annual st. patrick ' day dash sunday , march 15 , 2015 , in seattle , washington all smiles : a woman is seen at the st. patrick 's day dash in seattle this year mayor marty walsh , gov. charlie baker and other massachusetts political leaders took part
first - term americans rep. seth moulton , who served four tours in iraq as a marine , marched with outvets