newcastle united legend , former england captain and national treasure shearer spent his illustrious football career terrorising the best defences in the premier league - and it all started just earning a weekly wage of £ 25
in an exclusive interview with match of the day , shearer opens up about his first experiences in life on and off the football pitch
shearer ( right ) gave an exclusive interview to match of the day magazine discussing his experiences my first ... live game shearer says : ' i remember everything – getting on the metro , getting in the ground , walking up to the top of the stadium and looking at the pitch ! getting squashed because it was standing in those days , then it all going ballistic when kevin keegan scored and newcastle united won – it was mad ! ' shearer saw kevin keegan score in his first ever match at st james ' park when he was a child my first … job shearer says : ' i used to do a milk round with my uncle to earn five pound every saturday
all the girls wanted to go out with me ! ' my first … pay packet shearer says : ' it was when i was an apprentice at southampton , i was on a yts scheme and it was £ 25 a week , straight into my bank account ! ' shearer started his career at southampton before moving to blackburn and winning the premier league my first … car shearer says : ' it was an escort 1300 l , registration number b993 xht
i 'd never had it before in my life and everyone else was having it , so i thought i 'm going to have it too ! ' the former blackburn star revealed that a fillet steak was his first ever pre-match meal as a footballer my first … hat - trick shearer says : ' 1988
' a 17 - year - old shearer had a debut he 'd never forget after scoring a hat - trick but was soon back washing kits the newcastle united legend also holds the record for the most premier league hat - tricks ( 11 ) my first … tournament as a pundit shearer says : ' i started with the bbc in 2006 so the first tournament was the 2006 world cup in germany
' the match of the day pundit has become a regular on the show and at major tournaments like the world cup the match of the day magazine with shearer 's exclusive interview goes on - sale 24 - 30 march