kim sears waited eight years for a proposal from andy murray , mariah carey accepted nick cannon ’s offer of marriage after one month
how long it takes you to get married is entirely individual but when one person is gagging to get up the aisle and the other has no intention of going there , there are clearly questions that need answering
staying with someone who ’s using you as a stop - gap until their ‘ true ’ love comes along is n’t healthy ; staying with someone who loves you but does n’t want to get married for justifiable reasons is entirely different
tracey reveals the signs to look out for to work out whether your partner is ' the one ' but how do you know who ’s holding out for better and who ’s genuine , albeit marriage shy ? there are the seven key questions to consider , according to relationship therapists - and two you need to ask yourself
what ’s their background and relationship history ? it is often used as an excuse but the ‘ i do n’t believe in the institution of marriage - it ’s just a ‘ piece of paper ’ ’ is understandable if based on past experience
a previous failed marriage can make people cynical about a repeat performance
if your partner ’s parents had a toxic marriage , treated each other badly and were desperately unhappy , it ’s hardly surprising they ’re not keen to follow in their footsteps
their fear is n’t about getting married , it ’s fear of it ending in a messy , painful divorce
are they happy discussing marriage even if not happy doing it ? if you ca n’t sit down and have an open , honest discussion with someone you love about something that is important to you , you should n’t be marrying them in the first place
can they tell you the reason why they ’re not interested ? it ’s a huge red flag if their answer to ‘ why do n’t you want to marry me ? ” is “ i do n’t know ”
do they have a problem with the actual ceremony ? one couple i knew nearly split because the guy refused to discuss marriage even though he was desperately in love with his partner
does the thought of all their family being together in one room make them want to run for the hills ? tracey says that being to optimistic could be a sign that your relationship is in danger offer up some alternatives - a registry office , garden party with a few friends , just the two of you away somewhere , writing your own vows instead of repeating words that might mean nothing to them - and see what response you get
are they happy committing , if not getting married ? do n’t confuse marriage with commitment
if your partner clearly loves you , is committed for life but just does n’t want to get married , does it really matter ? why is marriage important to you ? there are many reasons to want to get married
do you want to get married for moral or religious reasons ? are you jealous and want to make sure others know your partner ’s off limits ? are you doing it because all your friends are and you feel left out ? do you want to send an ‘ i ’m over you alright ! ’ message to an ex ? or do you fancy a big party with all your friends and a chance to show off ? are you doing it to boost your self - esteem ? the high of planning a wedding and being the envy of others who ’d also like to be getting married , works wonders to prop up sagging self - confidence
if you ’re suggesting marriage way earlier than most people and your partner ’s baulking at the idea , this may actually mean they ’re more serious about you , than you are them
while there ’s an undeniable romantic appeal to the notion of ‘ love at first sight ’ , is it not more romantic ( not to mention sensible ) to give your marriage the best possible chance to succeed by waiting a little ?