prince charles received a prestigious conservation award at a gala dinner in washington , dc , last night as he and camilla , continued their u.s. tour
camilla , wearing an opulent pearl necklace , and the charles were guests of honor at the international conservation caucus foundation at the andrew mellon auditorium
earlier in the day prince charles had tried a piece of cake at an adult education project in washington , dc ' a bit of orange in it
addressing the gala dinner , charles praised the u.s. for its long term commitment to the environment , citing president franklin roosevelt who sought to protect the nation 's wildlife and open spaces
prince charkes gives a speech at an exceptional leadership in conservation at andrew mellon hall in washington , dc , on the third day of a visit to the u.s. the charles spoke after being presented with the international conservation caucus foundation teddy roosevelt award for exceptional leadership in conservation the prince is presented with an award for his work as an environment leader for more than 40 years prince charles accepts the award for his ' extraordinary ' conservation leadership on a four - day visit to the u.s. the prince told the invited guests : ' i repeatedly hear it said - as i am sure you do - that looking after nature is too costly ; a barrier to growth and a danger to economic competitiveness
' today charles and camilla will proceed to louisville , kentucky , for the final stop on their trip
prince charles praised the u.s. for its long term commitment to the environment prince charles is seen making his way to a meeting with with senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , republican of kentucky , at the u.s. capitol in washington , dc yesterday she will also attend a reception for patrons and supporters of the brooke usa at churchill downs
earlier yesterday president obama told prince charles that u.s. like the british royal family more than their own politicians in a meeting at the white house
president obama joked this afternoon that u.s. like the british royal family more than their own politicians in a meeting with prince charles at the white house the pair met in the oval office for the second time since obama took office
charles looked a little bemused but he pointed out one of the britain press corps out to the president - a veteran royal photograher from the britain tabloid newspaper , the sun. he told mr obama he had been photographing the prince for more than 35 years and when he added that the first president he had reported on in the u.s. was ronald reagan , the u.s. leader replied ' awesome '
obama is the sixth u.s. president to entertain the royal , who has visited the u.s. on 23 separate occasions , during his royal career and is unlikely to be the last
obama is the sixth u.s. president to entertain the royal , who has visited the u.s. on 23 separate occasions , during his royal career and is unlikely to be the last camilla looked on admiringly as charles tried his hand at bowling but gave it a miss herself britain 's charles and his wife , camilla , the duchess of cornwall , are directed to the west wing doors of the white house in washington , dc