it is possible that clinton distributed sensitive information through her personal email , the state dept. now admits , and only a review of her messages will determine if she broke the rules
a state dept. official who spoke to the post acknowledged that some of the correspondence clinton sent through her private email may constitute a breach of security guidelines
the official asserted that clinton did n't directly defy state dept. 's policies by using her personal email for government communications , but a manual obtained by news outlets shows that since 2005 state dept. has directed its employees to use its email system because it has the ' proper level of security control
' the former secretary of state 's team has responded to a storm of criticism surrounding clinton 's email practices by hunkering down and waiting for it to pass
the former secretary of state 's team has responded to a storm of criticism surrounding clinton 's email practices by hunkering down and waiting for it to pass
but top communications gurus are recommending the campaign immediately act to deflate ' email-gate ' state dept. deputy spokeswoman harf insists that mrs. clinton did n't send any classified material through her private ' clintonemails.com ' account while she led the agency but top communications gurus are recommending the campaign immediately act to deflate email-gate
cedar county democrats in early states worry the scandal is an early warning sign that clinton 's presumed presidential campaign is on the path to destruction and could ' implode
' she and her team has said that it was not used for anything but unclassified work , ' harf , deputy spokeswoman for state dept. told reporters on wednesday , adding moments later , ' i do n’t think there was any indication she was doing anything but [ that ] here , so i do n’t think it ’s really a pertinent question
' it is the state dept. ’s general policy that normal day - to - day operations be conducted on an authorized [ automated information system ] , which has the proper level of security control to provide nonrepudiation , authentication and encryption , to ensure confidentiality , integrity , and availability of the resident information , ' the state dept. 's foreign affairs manual says
' the state dept. insider said it 's not true that ' by using personal email she is automatically out of step ' with the guidelines outlined in the manual
likewise , the post 's source at state dept. said , ' we are not going to prejudge the outcome of the review of secretary clinton ’s 55,000 pages of e-mails
' national democrats aligned with clinton are blowing off the email squabble as background noise that wo n't affect voters ' perceptions of their party 's most formidable presidential candidate
' voters do not give a s * * * about what email clinton used
former obama senior adviser david axelrod has said that the longer clinton and her team wait to respond to the flurry of questions about her use of not only a non-official email for her work at the state dept. but also a personal domain name and a private server , the likelier the situation is to get out of hand
dueling tweets , part i : likely republican presidential candidate jeb bush goaded clinton to be more transparent dueling tweets , part ii : clinton responded by saying ' i want the public to see my email ' and asking her old agency to hurry up the process ari fleisher , a former spokesman for george w. bush , told bloomberg , clinton 's team is ' making a big mistake ' by not letting her address the issue publicly
' because , who knows ? she could implode totally , ' he said .