video has emerged of the lapd pulling over the 20 - year - old son of taraji p. henson that appears to refute claims made by the empire actress that he was racially profiled by police
taraji p. henson hit headlines earlier this week by revealing in an interview that her son , marcel henson , was stopped in glendale for no reason , then doing ' exactly everything the cops told him to do , including letting them illegally search his car '
however the just - surfaced dashcam footage , taken in october last year , shows that taraji p. henson drove through a lighted crosswalk as a pedestrian walked across
after being questioned , taraji p. henson admitted to having marijuana and ritalin on him
taraji p. henson said this week her son was racially profiled during the stop new footage : despite taraji p. henson saying her son was pulled over for no reason , he actually ran a lighted crosswalk as a pedestrain crossed and admitted to having marijuana and ritalin on him sobriety test : marcel henson , 20 , told the officer he had smoked marijuana two hours before driving , and the officer asks him to get out of the car to see if he is under the influence , but determines he is n't taraji p. henson saaid her son marcel was racially profiled by police in glendale and at tje university of southern california
taraji p. henson said he had a prescription for the marijuana but could not find it
he said he did not have a prescription for the ritalin and that a friend had given it to him
however the officer , who seems very generous when dealing with taraji p. henson , lets the teen off with a citation for marijuana possession only
the officer told taraji p. henson he could go to court with the citation and show proof he has a prescription for medical marijuana
the empire star said that not only was her son pulled over by police , but was stopped by cops at the university of southern california for ' having his hands in his pocket
taraji p. henson revealed she had planned to transfer marcel to university of southern california , but had now decided to send the 20 - year - old to the historically black howard university , her alma mater
empire star henson , 44 , says her son was stopped at the university of california ( file picture ) for no other reason than having his hands in his pockets a university of southern california chief vowed to carry out his own investigation into the alleged incident taraji p. henson spoke about in the magazine
new hit : taraji p. henson currently stars on empire as cookie lyon , the recently - released - from - prison ex-wife of a music mogul ( played by terrence howard ) after revealing her son 's ordeal , the 44 - year - old said in the interview : ' so guess where he 's going ? howard university
i 'm not paying $ 50k so i ca n't sleep at night wondering is this the night my son is getting racially profiled on campus
also in the interview , taraji p. henson spoke about how happy she was to be one of now many black women leads on the small screen in shows like scandal and how to get away with murder
proud mother : taraji p. henson and her son pictured on january 20 , 2013 - attending a celebration for leading women in washington , dc empire aired it 's two - hour first - season finale last week , and has already been green - lighted for a second season