lt. col. robert hite , one of the three remaining doolittle 's raiders , died after a battle with alzheimer 's disease on sunday , aged 95 one of the last surviving doolittle 's raiders who attacked japan during a daring world war ii. mission has died , age 95
lt. col. robert hite died on sunday at a nursing home in nashville after a battle with alzheimer 's disease
he was one of three remaining doolittle 's raiders
robert hite was a co-pilot of a crew that flew one of the 16 b-25 bombers that raided tokyo in april 1942
led by lieutenant colonel james ' jimmy ' doolittle , the mission saw 80 airmen sent in bombers from a carrier at sea to attack military targets in japan
without enough fuel to reach a safe landing point , the brave crew had to land in chinese and hope villagers would lead them to safety
though the attack only caused scattered damage , it 's credited with boosting morale in the americans while shaking japan 's confidence less than five months after the country attacked pearl harbor
tom casey , a manager for the doolittle 's raiders , said that , despite the risks , ' they all volunteered to go anyway
' the 16 b - 25 bombers , each carrying five men , dropped bombs on targets such as factory areas and military installations
prisoner : robert hite , shown here being led blindfolded by his captors , was was taken captive by the japan for 40 months after the doolittle 's raiders veteran : after being liberated in 1945 , robert hite continued his active - duty service in 1951 during the korean war
take off : though the air raid only caused scattered damage , it 's believed that it boosted americans morale and shattered japan 's confidence risky : without enough fuel to reach a safe landing point , the brave crew had to land in chinese and hope villagers would lead them to safety after being liberated by americans troops in 1945 , he returned to active duty six years later , in 1951 during the korean war
robert hite 's son , wallace hite , told fox news that his father would want to be remembered for being patriotic
after robert hite 's passing , there are only two surviving raiders : lt. col. cole and staff sgt. david thatcher
ambitious : led by lt. col. james ' jimmy ' doolittle , the mission saw 80 airmen sent in b-25 bombers from a carrier at sea to attack military targets in japan leader : lt. col. james h. doolittle ( pictured above ) led the 80 airmen on the daring raid on tokyo during world war ii. the doolittle 's raiders , also known as the doolittle 's raiders , on 18 april 1942 , was an air raid by the americans during world war ii. the raid , led by lieutenant colonel james ' jimmy ' doolittle , caused negligible material damage to japan , but helped to boost a wounded nation 's morale in the aftermath of japan 's attack on pearl harbor on 7 december 1941
they knew the uncertainties : what if the navy task force was attacked ? what defences would they face ? and with b - 25s unable to land on a carrier decks , could they reach friendly bases in chinese ? aircraft : the raid , led by lieutenant colonel james ' jimmy ' doolittle , b-25b mitchell medium bomber launched without fighter escort from an aircraft carrier in the pacific the raiders brushed aside doolittle 's raiders 's assurances that anyone was free to withdraw
doolittle 's raiders 's plane took off first at 08:20 from a pitching carrier deck
when they arrived at the target , col. doolittle 's raiders ordered to open up the bomb bay doors