an illinois army national guard soldier vowed to bring ' the flames of war ' to u.s. if he was unable to join isil in syria , while his cousin bragged about gunning down 150 people at a military base disguised in his uniform , federal prosecutors said thursday
hasan , the 22 - year - old guardsman , was arrested wednesday evening at chicago trying to board a plane on the first leg of a journey to egypt
jonas , 29 , was detained a few hours later his home in aurora , the u.s. attorney 's office in chicago said
a federal complaint says the plan was for jonas to carry out an attack at military installation in illinois after hasan left for the middle east
the pair allegedly visited the base on tuesday with an undercover fbi agent they met on facebook to discus their plans
both have been accused of hatching a plot to attack a u.s. military facility the alleged plan the pair devised was for hasan ( right ) to flee the country and join isil while jonas ( left ) would have snuck into a base where he trained , disguised in his uniform according to federal documents , hasan described the rooms inside and talked about which ones should be hit
they are suspected of plotting an armed attack against a u.s. military facility in northern illinois where hasan had trained
in facebook messages to an undercover fbi agent in january , hasan said that if he was unable to make it to the middle east , he would help bring ' the flames of war to the heart ' of u.s. and ' cause as much damage and mayhem as possible , ' the complaint says
in other social media messages , hasan said his knowledge of the u.s. military and u.s. psychology would prove helpful in terrorizing u.s. , prosecutors contend
hasan ( left ) allegedly told an undercover fbi agent on facebook if he could n't get to the middle east he would help bring ' the flames of war to the heart ' of u.s.
hasan 's sister , manchinique bates , told the chicago sun-times , ' they are n't terrorists
' jonas allegedly communicated to an undercover agent that it may be difficult for him to get travel documents
hasan ( right ) was a member of the leighton 's golf company 634th brigade support battalion , based in joliet therefore , he said he would stage attacks in the u.s. using ak - 47s to kill up to 150 people , prosecutors allege
attorneys paul flynn and jim graham leave the dirksen federal building in chicago on thursday after representing the pair