animal rights activists were stunned when the parent company of ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus , feld entertainment , announced it would eliminate elephants from its circuses by 2018
the elephants will then be retired to a conservation center in florida
elephants perform at the ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus , at the amalie arena in tampa , florida
the ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus said it will phase out its iconic elephant acts by 2018 just days before the announcement , peta ( peta ) prevailed in an open - records request and obtained documents proving that , at least since 2010 , ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus has had elephants test positive for the human strain of tuberculosis ( tb )
tb is highly transmissible from elephants to humans , even without direct contact
a statement from peta frames ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus ’s announcement as a preemptive move to keep the public in the dark about the health risk posed by moving sick elephants to cities throughout the country
' these elephants suffer greatly , but now their retirement is vital to everyone ’s safety , ' the statement read
peta says the company 's move to retire its elephants heads off a scandal about the animals having tb while touring as many as one - third of the elephants having tested positive for tuberculosis , and several ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus employees have been treated for the disease ingrid e. newkirk , president of peta , said : ' many of the elephants are painfully arthritic , and many have tuberculosis , so their retirement day needs to come now ' the documents obtained by peta reveal that in 2010 , at least 11 elephants with the circus tested positive for tb , and that elephants used by ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus have had tb since at least 1978
as many as one - third of the elephants having tested positive for the disease , and several ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus employees have been treated for tb
tb carried by an elephant was linked to an outbreak among eight humans at an elephant sanctuary , some of whom had no direct contact with the elephant
peta said the documents also show that ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus consistently opposed efforts by officials to improve testing requirements for tb in elephants
ingrid e. newkirk , president of peta , added : ' many of the elephants are painfully arthritic , and many have tuberculosis , so their retirement day needs to come now
' kenneth feld ( left ) , ceo of feld entertainment , and his daughters , feed elephants at the ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus and center for elephant conservation , in polk city , florida however , executives at feld entertainment , ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus 's parent company , say it will take three years to build proper facilities for them on the 200 - acre plot of land in central florida that 's already being used as an elephant conservation center
the decision to phase out elephants from the ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus comes at a time when cities across the u.s. are cracking down on exotic animal displays
even before thursday 's announcement that the elephants will be phased out of ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus 's performances by 2018 , company officials already said they were pulling out of certain cities because of newly enacted restrictions
the company plans to retire its remaining 13 touring elephants to its conservation center in florida in 2018 feld entertainment , ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus 's parent company , say it will take three years to build proper facilities for all thirteen elephants to join the 29 already on site at the 200 - acre plot of land each elephant requires a certain amount of space and a certain amount of barn area , and permits , drainage issues and other logistics must also be worked out before the elephants can retire to the center another reason for the decision , company president kenneth feld said , was that certain cities and counties have passed ' anti-circus ' and ' anti-elephant ' ordinances
carol bradley , who wrote a book about the freeing of an elephant , called the decision ' earth - moving ' and thought the felds would never change their minds ' all of the resources used to fight these things can be put toward the elephants , ' feld said during an interview at the conservation center
' we 're not reacting to our critics ; we 're creating the greatest resource for the preservation of the asian elephant
' in 2014 , feld entertainment won $ 25.2 million in settlements from a number of animal - rights groups , including the humane society of the united states , ending a 14 - year legal battle over allegations that ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus circus employees mistreated elephants
the symbol of the ' greatest show on earth ' is the elephant but feld entertainment now admits that the public is no longer comfortable with them touring with elephants , and keeping up with changing regulations is tough the circus business is changing and feld is now investing in more motor sports
in 2010 it created a motorcycle stunt show called nuclear cowboyz ( pictured ) and has acquired a number of other acts more motor sports , daredevils and feats of human physical capabilities will likely be showcased
kenneth feld said initially the conservation center will be open only to researchers , scientists and others studying the asian elephant
' while ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus is phasing out elephants , other , smaller circuses in the u.s. — and in countries such as russia , france and thailand — still use elephants in their performances kenneth feld ( pictured ) feeds elephants feld and icky at the company 's conservation center in florida
feld owns the largest herd of asian elephants in north america , and it costs 65,000 yearly to care for each elephant celebrities reacted on twitter to the news that ringling bros. and barnum & bailey circus will end elephant performances by 2018 in response to growing public concern over ' how the animals are treated '