an online group claiming affiliation with islamic state terrorists has threatened u.s. military members and their families in the past , and over the weekend , a new threat surfaced on the web
a group calling itself the islamic state hacking division posted the names , photos and addresses of about 100 u.s. troops online , calling for attacks against them
the file , posted online saturday before being removed , claimed to have hacked military databases and said it was leaking 100 names " so that our brothers residing in u.s. can deal with you
" the possibility of lone - wolf attacks in the u.s. , the type that this message calls for , is a threat officials take seriously
a u.s. law enforcement official said that all 100 or so troops named in the file are being contacted
it is believed that isis members and sympathizers have been scouring social media sites trying to glean as much information as possible about service members , and have even threatened the spouses of military personnel online
one military wife recalls recently staying up all night and deleting every facebook picture of her children , every post that mentioned them or where they went to school
as the spouse of a special forces soldier , she 's always tried to be conscious of how much she advertises that she and her three young children are a military family
regarding this weekend 's threat targeting troops , the naval criminal investigative service notified the marine corps named in the file , a marine corps spokesman said
in january , military families were spooked by an online message on centcom 's twitter account which was in all caps
u.s. soldiers ! we 're watching you ! " the twitter hacker managed to post other threatening messages , propaganda videos and some military documents until the accounts were disabled
the gunman , who was known for sending hate mail to military families , was killed
" before the incident in canada , i honestly did n't think isis was a threat to our family or other military families , " she said in january
i think of other areas around the country where there 's a large military presence -- an attack , ambush , lone terrorist is something i fear
" i think it 's only a matter of time
" in late november , the fbi issued a warning to u.s. military members that isis was calling for attacks against them , a law enforcement source told cnn
the source said that " overseas based individuals are looking for like - minded individuals in the u.s. to carry out these attacks
" the warning asked members of the military to " review their online social media presence for any information that might attract the attention of violent extremists
" the bulletin also said authorities were concerned that isis members were " spotting and assessing " individuals in the u.s. who may be interested in carrying out attacks inside the country against members of the military , a u.s. counterterror official told cnn
angela mccormick ricketts also said in january that she 's thrown her hands up about the matter of online privacy
she 's done a lot of press and is omnipresent online
" i 'm probably screwed if isis starts targeting yappy military spouses , so it 's too late now ! there 's also a part of me that thinks that 's what they want -- to make us always looking over our shoulders
why should families bend to fear and stop sharing online when social media has helped many of them get through 14 years of nonstop war ? though the military has at times struggled with how much freedom its members should have on social media , relatives have wholeheartedly embraced it
military families appear to use social media at higher rates than civilians , according to data from the pew research center
facebook launched in 2004 , almost exactly a year after the u.s. invaded iraq
a 2014 survey by military advocacy group blue star families found that 75 % of 6,200 respondents considered the use of social media to be very important