seoul , korean a man opposed to joint korean - u.s. military drills attacked the u.s. ambassador in seoul , slashing his face and arm as he was about to give a speech thursday morning , authorities said
north korea quickly called the stabbing a " knife attack of justice " and said it reflected " anti- u.s. sentiment " in korean
authorities have obtained an arrest warrant for the knifing suspect , kim , an official at seoul central district court said friday
he was detained immediately after the attack , with authorities having time to formally arrest him or let him go
a police official , yoon myeong-seong , also told reporters that kim had previously visited north korea seven times between 1999 and 2007 , and that authorities were " intensively investigating " a possible connection between his visits to the reclusive state and this attack
the u.s. ambassador to korean , mark lippert , was in stable condition after undergoing more than two hours of surgery , in which he got 80 stitches to his face
the motive for his attack thursday ? he wanted an end to the korean - u.s. military drills to improve north-south relations , police said
the drills are held annually despite predictably harsh criticism from north korea
the north korea government believes the attack is " just punishment for u.s. warmongers , " according to its official news agency , kcna
" this incident is not only a physical attack on the u.s. ambassador , " she said , " but an attack on the korean - u.s. alliance and it can never be tolerated
" u.s. diplomats have been attacked , killed in past mark lippert was attacked while attending an event organized by the korean council for reconciliation and cooperation , which advocates peaceful reunification between the two koreas
the u.s. embassy did not request special security for the event , seoul police said
kim sat down at a different table than mark lippert , then got up and ran to the ambassador 's right side yelling something that sounded like anti-american sentiments
" when the man jumped on the ambassador , i stood up and jumped on the man , and they both fell on the ground , " a witness , jang , told cnn affiliate ytn
explaining the joint korean - u.s. military exercises after the attack , mark lippert -- clutching his right cheek and holding a bloodied arm -- was photographed hurrying out of the sejong cultural institute in central seoul
the only such camera outside the building did help authorities determine exactly when mark lippert and kim came in
" park , korean 's president , told mark lippert by phone that she was surprised and deeply troubled to hear about the attack -- an incident similar to one targeting her several years ago -- the asian nation 's foreign ministry said on its website
for park 's u.s. counterpart , president obama , the attack is personal as well as political
that 's because mark lippert is a longtime friend and confidant , having been part of obama 's inner circle for years
obama nominated mark lippert to serve as ambassador to korean last year
" will be back asap to advance u.s. - korean alliance ! " he then added in korean , " let 's work together ! " cnn 's judy kwon , paula hancocks , alexandra jaffe , stephen collinson , barbara starr , jim acosta and journalist hyoungjoo choi contributed to this report .