they have overlapping interests in iraq , afghanistan , perhaps even in yemen -- as well as the shared goal of an agreement on iran 's nuclear program , if not how to reach it
the obama administration has a keen interest in coaxing iran back into the " community of nations " because it is a regional power , a major player in a volatile part of the world
were the nuclear talks to leave iran as a " threshold state " -- capable of becoming a nuclear power in short order -- turkey , egypt and others in the region also might be tempted also to go nuclear
and israel might carry out its threat of a military strike on iran facilities
but u.s. and iran interests converge in more immediate ways
defeating the islamic state in iraq and syria ( isis ) -- the most high profile and urgent objective of u.s. foreign policy -- requires iran help , and quite a lot of it
beyond coalition airstrikes , ground forces are comprised of the iraq security forces , lebanese shia militias and iran advisers and officers
a similar environment may yet produce a u.s. - iran " understanding " in yemen
there is no clear - cut link between the negotiations on a nuclear deal and u.s. - iran co-operation elsewhere
last week , u.s. director of national intelligence james clapper told a congressional hearing : " i really do n't think that the negotiations , one way or the other , will have much bearing on what [ the iran ] do in iraq or any place they are trying to exert their influence , meaning syria or now yemen
" in any case , a substantive agreement on iran 's nuclear program does not seem imminent
ahead of yet another meeting in switzerland with iran foreign minister mohammad javid zarif , u.s. secretary of state kerry said monday that " unless iran is able to make the difficult decisions that will be required , there wo n't be a deal
the israel prime minister , bibi , is in the u.s. to tell u.s. congress that the deal being discussed is a bad one -- simultaneously injecting himself into the partisan rancor of washington and seeking to derail what would be the signature foreign policy achievement of obama 's second term
" rothkopf , no fan of obama 's policy on iran , wrote in foreign policy last month that " bibi 's decision to accept [ house speaker john ] boehner 's invitation to address the u.s. congress on the dangers of the iran nuclear deal is a case of sending the wrong man at the wrong time to give the wrong speech in the wrong place
last week he told the house foreign affairs committee that interim agreements with iran had made israel safer , and the israel prime minister " was wrong " to oppose them , just as he had been wrong in his enthusiastic support for the u.s. invasion of iraq in 2003
no one would pretend that u.s. has more in common with the iran than with israel
but right now , obama may just feel he 's more likely to find common ground with iran president rouhani than with the israel prime minister
iran is still supporting -- with fighters , equipment , training and lines of credit -- assad 's regime in syria , which the u.s. is trying to oust
iran and syria first bonded over a mutual loathing of saddam hussein , but the relationship has been sustained because the syria regime was the only non-sunni government in the arab world , and damascus and tehran see themselves as the " axis of resistance " to israel
iran training of militia such as the jaysh al-shabi has been critical to the assad regime 's survival
a former syria prime minister , riyad hijab , said after defecting that " syria is occupied by the iran regime
" sanctions have made it difficult for iran to afford its hefty subsidies to the assad regime -- so ironically , a nuclear agreement and the easing of sanctions might have the unintended consequence of allowing iran to continue its support of assad
all the same , the achievement of a nuclear deal - and the gradual lifting of u.s. and international sanctions against iran -- would surely change the mood music
and regardless of progress on the nuclear front , the u.s. and iran will continue to share antipathy for the apocalyptic vision of isis , and an interest in buttressing iraq as a viable state
and it ca n't hurt that the u.s. and iran find themselves on the same side , for now , in iraq .