but today , if someone called me that , i think i would say , " thank you for describing who i am and who we , women , are
" that provocative title , " moody bitches : the truth about the drugs you 're taking , the sleep you 're missing , the sex you 're not having and what 's really making you crazy , " got me thinking about whether our emotionality , our monthly ups and downs during our menstrual cycle , should be viewed as such a negative after all
opinion : are drugs stifling women ? " women have this idea that we are supposed to not be moody and we 're supposed to tamp down that moodiness , " said holland , author of " moody bitches " and a psychiatrist who has practiced in new york for 20 years
so , why on earth have all of those qualities come to be viewed as a source of weakness , not strength ? and why is at least one in four u.s. women taking some form of psychiatric medication , including antidepressants , versus one in seven men , according to holland ? some of these women definitely should be taking antidepressants and other medications , but the question is why are so many other women taking them when they do n't need to be ? this is you on stress ? those were just some of the many questions a group of us chatted about over coffee recently : holland , cnn legal analyst hostin , cosmopolitan executive editor yazel and me
" i think we spend a lot of time and energy pushing down emotions that are uncomfortable for us
i do n't want to cry right now
i do n't want to be angry
i do n't want to be scared so we push it down , but the problem with pushing it down is it takes a lot of energy and it ends up creating a lot of tension
" social media , with the endless barrage of gorgeous - looking pictures from family and friends who appear to be having the most perfect lives , certainly does n't help
" but when more and more women medicate away their emotions when they do n't need to be taking antidepressants or any other psychiatric drugs , they create a " new normal , " she said
if everybody is doing it , then the ones who do n't are at a disadvantage , " said holland , who is also the author of the best - selling memoir " weekends at bellevue
" " if everyone is getting boob jobs , then people who do n't end up feeling flat - chested
" and when it seems more normal than not to be on mental health meds , the bar is lowered for when women will go on antidepressants , she said
women who are medicating away their emotions when they do n't need to be might not realize there are major effects to their decision
" women today are subjected to a barrage of advertising -- from daytime talk shows to women 's magazines -- about the medications they could take to make them feel better
women 's desire for sex is complicated , not strictly hormonal , study says " twenty years ago , when i started my practice , i had somebody come to me and they would have symptoms , but they did n't quite know what was wrong and what they needed
and now people come to me and it 's like , ' well can you explain the difference between effexor and wellbutrin , and can you tell me which one i should take ? ' " the conversation " advanced from ' is there something wrong with me ? do i need medicine ? ' to ' which medicine is right for me ? ' " said holland , who points to how nine out of 10 of the big pharmaceutical companies spend more on marketing than on research and development
what we 're also seeing , holland said , is a growing belief by women in the workplace that they need the meds to control their emotions at the office
she tells the story of a woman who called her up in tears and said she needed new antidepressants because clearly her current meds were n't preventing her from crying at work
i think it 's a big mistake
clearly , that relationship did n't last very long ! as we wrapped up , i asked the women what the biggest takeaway was for them following our conversation about holland 's thoughtful new book
" how concerned are you that so many women who do n't necessarily need antidepressants are taking them ? share your thoughts with kelly wallace on twitter or cnn living on facebook .