the story of the jewish in the u.s. is a testament to " u.s. exceptionalism " and stands in contrast to a long history of discrimination and pariah status in european and muslim lands
in fact , the economic prosperity and social standing of u.s. 's jewish shows that generally they have fared better than many other minorities
" since then , u.s. jewish have been appointed and elected to public offices as governors , senators , mayors , cabinet officers and in the military , and today , most u.s. adults are unaware of and do n't seem to care who 's jewish
thus it comes as a shock when at the ucla , a jewish woman student applicant for the student council 's judicial board is initially rejected after being asked : " given that you are a jewish student and very active in the jewish community , how do you see yourself being able to maintain an unbiased view ? " according to the new york times , the discussion that followed had " seemed to echo the kind of questions , prejudices and tropes -- particularly about divided loyalties -- that have plagued jewish across the globe for centuries
and in february , at another ucla campus in davis , jewish students opposed to a student council resolution advocating a boycott of israel were heckled by cries of " allahu akbar " and a jewish fraternity house was daubed with a swastika
would ucla students consider it appropriate to ask u.s. supreme court justices ruth bader ginsburg and elena kagan similarly hostile and demeaning questions ? apparently it 's necessary for the university to teach its student leadership that the u.s. constitution bans religious tests for public office
california 's university administrators might need to be reminded that title 6 of the civil rights act of 1964 applies to all u.s. , and they have an obligation to ensure equal educational opportunity for all students
as for the uc davis students , they need to learn that support for israel is a legitimate u.s. tradition
" students are of course free to disagree with brandeis but not to harass or intimidate jewish who support his argument
in our recent study , my trinity college colleague , ariela keysar , and i found that 54 % of jewish students reported experiencing or witnessing ant - semitism on campus during the six months of september 2013 - march 2014
our survey covered 1,157 jewish students on 55 campuses
twenty years ago , complaints by jewish students in paris that they were subject to anti-semitism from a strange coalition of marxist , fascist and islamist groups were ignored by complacent university and government officials