israel prime minister netanyahu 's speech to the u.s. congress this week was as eagerly anticipated in tehran as it was in washington
the paper , skeptical of president rouhani 's nuclear negotiations with the u.s. from the beginning , said netanyahu 's comments present an awkward truth for the pro-negotiation faction in tehran : the israel leader and his u.s. supporters are openly signaling the dispute with iranians can only be resolved once there is a change of regime there
iranians media coverage of netanyahu 's speech mentioned the controversy in the u.s. around its timing but the hardline outlets warned against reading too much into it
the moderate outlets , supportive of president rouhani , have put a different spin on netanyahu 's speech
the moderate faction sees the controversy around netanyahu 's speech to the u.s. congress and his failure to squeeze the obama white house to toughen its negotiation terms with tehran as an indication that netanyahu is the one who is isolated
the hardliners and the moderates were in full agreement on one point , and that was the delight they shared about the absence of some 60 out of 232 democratic members of the u.s. congress from netanyahu 's speech
it is too early to gain a good insight into the reaction of ordinary iranians to netanyahu 's speech
the iranians response to netanyahu 's speech to the u.s. congress is best described as one that reflects the clash of visions between moderates and hardliners in the echelons of power
for the moderates , the controversy around his speech and the cold - shoulder netanyahu got from the white house is itself a vindication of president rouhani 's gamble on reaching a diplomatic solution to iranians 's 12 - year nuclear saga
the hardliners have been quick to paint netanyahu 's visit to washington as an example of the insincerity of the u.s. in dealing with iranians , but not even the hawks in tehran are claiming that netanyahu 's presence in the u.s. congress is grounds to shift iranians 's nuclear diplomatic strategy .