sanaa , yemen the u.s. military has pulled its remaining personnel out of yemen due to the deteriorating security situation , the state department said
the evacuation involved about 100 special operations forces members from the al anad airbase , sources in the region familiar with the situation told cnn
those evacuated , which include navy seals and members of the army 's delta force , were the last u.s. forces stationed in the arab nation , which is home to aqap , the terrorist group also known as aqap
" we ... continue to actively monitor terrorist threats emanating from yemen and have capabilities postured in the area to address them , " state department spokesman jeff rathke said late saturday
" as we have in the past , we will take action to disrupt continuing , imminent threats to the u.s. and our citizens
" the u.s. closed its embassy in sanaa last month , after houthi rebels took over the yemen capital
and hundreds of aqap members escaped two yemen prisons thursday and friday , raising further security questions
" there is no military solution to yemen 's current crisis , " jeff rathke said
the u.n. security council will meet at 3 p.m. et sunday to discuss yemen , the french mission said saturday via twitter
for years , the u.s. military has worked closely with yemen 's government to go after aqap , together carrying out numerous attacks like the 2011 drone strike that killed prominent aqap figure anwar al-awlaki
and u.s. president obama has hailed this cooperation as a pillar in his anti-terrorism campaign
" yemen has never been a perfect democracy or a island of stability , " obama said in january , promoting the policy of " partnering and intelligence - sharing with that local government " as the best approach in a bad situation
but while there have been drone strikes as recently as last month , these cooperative efforts have been hampered by yemen 's growing difficulty in maintaining unity and peace
on friday , for instance , isis purportedly claimed responsibility for bombings at two mosques in sanaa what , if true , would mark that group 's first large - scale attack in yemen
the airstrikes came on the same day opposing yemen military forces -- some under the houthi , others led by officers loyal to hadi -- battled in aden , said aden gov. hobtour
" " the committee announces the decision to call proud sons of the yemen people in all regions to unite , collaborate and cooperate with members of the armed and security forces in the face of terrorist forces in all parts of the country , " the report said