u.s. diplomats have come under attack in various places in the last few decades
here 's a look at u.s. diplomats who have been killed in the line of duty
the first u.s. ambassador assassinated while in office was mein , the u.s. ambassador to guatemala
noel , the u.s. ambassador to sudan , was nearing the end of a march 1973 reception in the saudi embassy in khartoum when terrorists stormed in
the gunmen took noel and another u.s. , as well as diplomats from saudi arabia , belgium and jordan , according to a u.s. intelligence memo
the captors ' demand : free various people , mostly palestinian guerillas , then imprisoned in jordan , israel and the u.s.
this spurred negotiations that did n't go anywhere , ending instead with the killing of noel , fellow u.s. diplomat george curtis moore and belgium 's charge d'affaires
u.s. authorities say the assailants belonged to the palestinian terrorist movement known as " black september , " claiming that palestinian leader yasser arafat signed off on the attack
antoinette varnava , a 31 - year - old local who was part of the small embassy staff for about a decade , also died in the violence
u.s. ambassador to lebanese francis meloy , his economic counselor robert o. waring and their lebanese driver disappeared in june 1976 as they crossed the green line , the division between beirut 's christian and muslim sectors
about eight months after president jimmy carter appointed him as u.s. ambassador to afghanistan , adolph dubs was taken from his car while heading home from the embassy
a former eight - story hotel facing the sea transformed into u.s. 's embassy in beirut turned into a war zone in april 1983 , when a truck loaded with explosives was rammed into its entrance
offices were pancaked on top of each other , the elevator shaft and stairwell destroyed , the cafeteria full of bodies and rubble , recalled the then u.s. ambassador dillon , who himself was dug out of the rubble
while 44 people inside the embassy survived the blast , 17 u.s. , 25 foreign service nationals , 10 contract workers and 10 visa applicants and passerby did not
the afsa ( afsa ) lists eight people as having died in the attack on its memorial remembering u.s. who died while serving the u.s. government abroad in a foreign affairs capacity
that 's where ambassador christopher stevens was when mortar and rocket fire struck a u.s. diplomatic annex there