a federal judge has struck down nebraska 's ban on same - sex marriage , calling it an " unabashedly gender - specific infringement of the equal rights of its citizens
" u.s. district judge bataillon 's decision monday means that same - sex marriage is now against the law in fewer than one in four states
and so , beginning monday the state must " treat same - sex couples the same as different sex couples " when it comes to marriage rights , the federal injunction reads
as the dominoes fall in favor of same - sex marriages , the question now seems to be which state will be the last ? the number of states offering same - sex marriages has surged since the u.s. supreme court 's ruling in 2013 that invalidated part of the federal defense of marriage act
the case involving ohio , michigan , kentucky and tennessee is expected to be decided sometime in june by the u.s. supreme court
here 's the situation in the 12 states that currently ban same - sex marriages : the state 's constitutional ban on gay marriage , passed in 2004 , was struck down twice last year -- once by a state court judge and again by a u.s. district court judge
georgia is one of just two states with no legislative action or pending legal decisions whatsoever on same - sex marriage
the kentucky ban is part of the u.s. supreme court case scheduled for arguments in april and a decision by june
a u.s. district court judge ruled last year that the state 's same - sex marriage ban was unconstitutional , resulting in the issuance of more than 300 marriage licenses
but that court has indicated that it will not rule on the case until after the u.s. supreme court decision
a u.s. district court judge granted an injunction last year against the state 's same - sex marriage ban , describing it as unconstitutional
same - sex couples are challenging the state 's ban in u.s. district court , but a federal judge issued a ruling on january 20 delaying the proceedings until after the u.s. supreme court rules
u.s. district court judge karen schreier struck down the state 's same - sex marriage ban in january , but blocked enforcement pending an appeal to the u.s. court of appeals for the eighth circuit
a federal appeals court judge upheld a ban last year on same - sex marriages in the state
that decision is part of the u.s. supreme court case expected to be finalized this summer
that decision also will be part of the u.s. supreme court case .