london captive ukrainian pilot nadiya savchenko has sent a stark message to russian president putin as she awaits trial in a moscow jail
in a letter from prison , written in response to questions from cnn , she said : " if putin wants to defeat ukrainian -- let 's try to defeat me first ! " " but if he wants peace and friendship between our nations as he claims , " she added , " i am ready to make the first step towards it
" my freedom will be that first step towards peace and understanding in ukrainian
" nadiya savchenko has been held by the russian authorities in pre-trial detention since last june
her defiant message was written after cnn submitted a series of questions to the ukrainian fighter pilot through one of her lawyers , feygin
we do not know under what circumstances nadiya savchenko answered the questions , but feygin says she wrote the responses on friday as he was visiting her
nadiya savchenko undertook a hunger strike for 83 days to protest her detention despite pleas from her family and her lawyers
. the ' rebels ' themselves told me that those journalists came under fire of their own ' makhnovtsi ' [ slang for ' anarchists ' ] , " nadiya savchenko told cnn in her letter from jail
nadiya savchenko 's case has attracted wide international attention and turned her into a symbol of resistance against russian in her home country , with ukrainian 's president petro poroshenko awarding her the title " hero of ukraine , " one of the nation 's highest honors
" nadiya savchenko 's lawyer recently told cnn 's christiane amanpour in an interview that president putin holds nadiya savchenko 's fate and that she wanted to await trial out of jail
but as nadiya savchenko continues her hunger strike , is she willing to ultimately die in detention ? " to die ? ! that 's not our methods ! ! ! ; ) i 'll think of something better ! ... : ; ) , " she said
" i 'll be on hunger strike as i said until i am returned back to ukrainian , or at least [ until ] detention is changed to a house arrest at the ukrainian consulate in rf , which is actually a part of ukrainian in russian