cookie or boo boo kitty ? if you 're a fan of the hit tv show " empire , " you will totally get that reference to one of the main rivalries on the series
the show has become something of an industry phenomenon , with ratings growing every week
but fox 's " empire " is doing the damn thing
the show revolves around the character of record label owner lyon ( played by howard ) and his family , which includes three sons vying to take over his company and an ex-wife who took the fall for him and returns from prison intent on getting what 's hers
" you 're so beautiful , " empire , and here are some of the reasons why : taraji p. henson taraji p. henson has been in the industry for a minute , and despite critically acclaimed roles in films like " hustle and flow " and " the curious case of benjamin button " ( the latter of which earned her a best supporting actress oscar nomination ) , her career had n't really taken off
taraji p. henson has sunk her teeth into the role of lyon family matriarch cookie
the show 's co-creator , strong , told entertainment weekly that fans can thank taraji p. henson for the now infamous " boo boo kitty " nickname that viewers have come to love
when cookie sneeringly calls her ex-husband lyon ' new lady love , anika calhoun ( played by grace gealey ) , " boo boo kitty , " you want to yell at the screen , " get her , cookie ! " " so , basically taraji p. henson is a genius , " strong said
" watch for taraji p. henson to snag nominations next award season
it 's new - school hip " empire " has fully embraced everything that makes a modern drama modern
" the music is off the hook the show has managed to improve on what " glee " did and succeed at what the now - canceled nbc drama " smash " tried to do : fully incorporate music into the show and cross over to the actual music industry
his mellow voice has carried some of the soundtrack 's more popular tunes , including the anthem to individuality , " good enough , " which has more than 1 million listens on the streaming music service spotify
superproducer timbaland ( best known for work with artists including jay z and justin timberlake ) and his protegee beanz are responsible for the show 's sound
fingers crossed for a possible " empire " tour featuring smollett and other co-stars including bryshere y. gray , who portrays youngest lyon son hakeem and who in real life raps under the moniker yazz the greatest
given the popularity of the show , there 's no telling who will pop up on season 2
taraji p. henson and howard the love / hate relationship between cookie and lucious lyon is everything
" howard told blacktree tv that he and taraji p. henson had to do a " chemistry read " to show that they clicked