whoever wins the general election on may 7 will face international challenges reaching to the heart of a question that has bedevilled every london government since 1945 : what is , or should be , britain 's role in the world ? as one of world war ii 's victor countries , britain helped shape the post-war international architecture
the two world wars severely depleted britain 's human and material resources
the heyday of the world 's largest - ever empire and of london and liverpool 's control of a vast maritime trading network had passed
as the cold war took global grip , the u.s. purposefully pushed britain aside
the u.s. took over its military bases , its spheres of influence , and its markets
maintaining this key u.s. relationship is the most important foreign policy challenge facing britain 's prime minister after may 7
britain 's principal value to the u.s. lies with its defense capabilities
although capacity has steadily declined in the past 30 years , britain was seventh in the world in 2013 in terms of military spending and remains a dependable u.s. deputy within nato
it is likely , on these trends , that britain would be unable to contribute separately to any new international campaign , but would be obliged to place its troops under u.s. command , as general raymond odierno , u.s. army chief of staff , recently suggested
u.s. 's top politicians , soldiers and diplomats , such as u.n. ambassador samantha power , are applying increasing pressure on britain over defense expenditure , but with little joy so far
worse still , in the u.s. view , is the possibility that a labour - led government , potentially beholden to the unilateral nuclear disarmers of the snp , could slacken its commitment to trident , the britain 's nuclear missile submarine fleet
washington 's worries about britain 's role have been exacerbated by the lack of fight , as some see it , displayed by london when faced with the prospect of scottish independence and the inevitable break - up of the britain
similar concerns apply to britain 's eu membership , which cameron has placed in doubt by promising a national referendum by 2017
the u.s. greatly values britain as an informal , surrogate voice within the eu
but washington 's interests aside , the eu is britain 's biggest trading partner and a natural ally in terms of democratic values , and legal , social and cultural norms
but it would seriously undermine britain 's standing in the world , in relation to europe and to the emerging brics powers
on these issues , it seems that britain , by design or not , has little concrete to contribute
and as for japan , ostensibly an important britain ally , recent defense cooperation agreements do not disguise the likely infeasibility of sharp - end assistance
disturbed by this evidence of decline , britain 's political class comforts itself by arguing the country still leads by example
in the election campaign , foreign policy and the key 21st century international issues , such as climate change , have barely got a mention so far
britain 's horizons are narrowing