a black hawk helicopter that went down in waters off the florida three days ago -- killing 11 service members -- had aborted a training mission due to bad weather before it crashed , a military official said friday
on the same day that officials released the names of the seven marines who were aboard , new details emerged friday on the fatal mission at the santa rosa sound near eglin air force base
as officials continue to investigate why the aircraft went down in thick fog tuesday , maj. gen. osterman -- commander of marsoc ( marsoc ) -- told reporters that the black hawk was one of two that had to abort exercises involving water " insertion and extraction techniques " before the crash
at that point , the one helicopter obviously made it back and determined that the second helicopter was not back with them in that return
" the crash occurred at night -- hours after the two helicopters had successfully completed the same training exercise in daylight
the black hawk helicopters were training near eglin air force base as heavy fog shrouded the sound -- a narrow body of water between mainland northern florida and a barrier island -- about 8:30 p.m. tuesday , the military said
searchers found the helicopter at the bottom of the sound , and the bodies of the seven marines and four guard members who were aboard
the bodies of at least two national guard members were recovered thursday , and the remains of the other two were believed to be in the underwater wreckage 25 feet below the surface , the guard said
on friday , marsoc , based at camp lejeune , north carolina , identified the seven marines who perished in the crash as capt. stanford h. shaw , iii , 31 , of basking ridge , new jersey ; master sgt. thomas a. saunders , 33 , of williamsburg , virginia ; staff sgt. marcus s. bawol , 26 , of warren , michigan ; staff sgt. trevor p. blaylock , 29 , of lake orion , michigan ; staff sgt. liam a. flynn , 33 , of queens , new york ; staff sgt. kerry m. kemp , 27 , of port washington , wisconsin ; and staff sgt. andrew c. seif , 26 , of holland , michigan
they gave all : profiles of those killed in helicopter crash the names of the four louisiana national guard members were not released
" to have such a tremendous group of marines -- obviously the experience that they had , the cohesion and teamwork and everything else that they exhibited -- it definitely hit us all hard by having that many at one time , " osterman said of the deaths
the second black hawk -- which , like the first , was assigned to the 1 - 244th assault helicopter battalion based in hammond , louisiana -- safely returned to the base , some 40 miles east of pensacola
giuliano said the fire department , which has a unit on santa rosa island near the crash site , was called to help at about 10 p.m. tuesday , roughly 90 minutes after the crash
it involved small boats , and inserting and extracting marines from the water via helicopter
morris would not say which phase of the training the marines were in tuesday night
the helicopter had broken into several pieces in a " high - impact crash , " he said
" it is a very tight organization , and many of these marines and sailors associated with marsoc are more senior marines , " osterman said