the chaps ' view - by quentin letts one of the great mysteries of mankind — and i mean mankind — may have been solved
scientists from king ’s college have measured 15,000 penises in 16 countries
this work has allowed them , after feeding the findings into computers , making boffinish statistical adjustments , twiddling knobs and squinting at graphs , to announce an average size for chaps ’ undercarriage
that , in turn , has been seized on as having psychological significance
apparently , we men are now less likely to have a nervous collapse about our own shortcomings
quentin letts says that michelangelo ’s 16th century statue of the naked david ( pictured ) , can sometimes be a source of fun for being a ' tiddler ' we have not been told the logistical ins and out , if that is the term , of this ground - breaking global operation
the research demanded at least two readings ( one at ease , one standing to quivering attention ) for each handsome specimen
were the laboratory assistants who took the data dreary , middle - aged men speaking in the monotones of e. l. wisty ( the know - it - all creation of the comedian peter cook ) ? or were they busty , sultry ladies with husky larynxes and widening eyes ? to what level of exactitude were the measurements taken ? what instruments were employed — school rulers , tape measures , laser micrometers or ( ouch ) cold , industrial calipers ? while we ’re about it , exactly how , in 16 languages , do you say ‘ sorry to interrupt your busy day , monsieur , but would you mind dropping your drawers so that my pouting assistant miss droop can take the bore and length of your old man ’ ? but back to the conclusions
dr veale , the fine body of a man who led the psychiatrists from king ’s , has announced that the average length of an erect penis is 5.16 in
but will men have been psychologically affected ? does size matter to us as it is said to matter , particularly to our wives and girlfriends ? or is this yet another attempt by the medical / psychiatric world to create collywobbles where previously few existed ? dr veale said his findings would ‘ help doctors reassure the large majority of men that the size of their penis is in the normal range ’
he said he would ‘ use the graphs to examine the discrepancy between what a man believes to be their position on the graph and their actual position ’
another doctor disclosed that some men , poor fellows , suffer from something called body dysmorphic disorder , which can cause a person to have a distorted view of how he looks
but is this perhaps a case of publicly employed scientists going to expensive lengths to investigate a not particularly widespread problem ? is male appendage size quite possibly a false hoo - hah created by society ? it has been said that the late dame elizabeth taylor ( pictured ) had physical difficulty with one of her early husbands , so enormous was his manhood there may be extreme cases of smallness or vastness , where it can create disharmony between men and their sexual partners
but does any of that truly justify a research operation of the size ( dread word ) just carried out by these london medics ? there was a famous falling out between mick ( pictured ) and fellow rolling stone , keith richards , after keith made remarks about mick 's manhood and anyway , are women really so concerned with measurements ? is there not something more important than size — namely , love ? for millennia , the male member has occupied a curious place
in ancient civilisation , penises were considered to have mythical significance linked to male power and eternity
well played , that man
the correlation between penis size and power in the modern era , even 200 years ago , is less persuasive
how trivial and cheap , to mock a great man after his death in such a fashion
even if he was on the ‘ petit ’ side , bonaparte was a mighty general with unarguable power
men know there is not much they can really do to alter the equipment fate has given them
women can increase or decrease the size of their busts by visiting a plastic surgeon , but medical science offers men much less chance to vary their dimensions
i simply do n’t believe , even in this age of explicit advertisements with endless commercial emphasis on sex , that blokes give much thought to their willy size
did we size up one another in the communal showers ? not that i recall
if i had been interested in seeing how sproggins minor measured up , then i would have had to peer down quite close for a proper gawp , and i ’m not sure that would have been appreciated