brisbane bras hang from the antlers of a pair of moose heads above the bar inside an old music hall
then something weird happens -- you exit the washroom and find yourself in a different bar
you 've simply stepped into the maritime - themed mermaid bar
inside lefty 's old time music hall , the mermaid bar is an example of the latest nightlife trend in brisbane -- hidden bars
sultry old days " we actually did n't mean to turn the mermaid into a secret bar , " says dwyer , general manager of lefty 's
before lefty 's moved in , the building was occupied by the velvet cigar , a longtime strip club
webb , owner of local restaurant peasant and cabiria , took over the place and renovated it , preserving some of the old establishment 's bawdy touches
the bar counter upstairs is where customers once paid for extra services from dancers before entering a small room ( now the mermaid bar , which sells beer in cans )
mermaid bar : secret escape " there are actually three entrances to the mermaid bar , " says webb of the hidden bar
it 's a lot of loud fun out there at lefty 's sometimes , and the mermaid is like my escape
about those bras on the moose antlers while the mermaid is a rum bar , lefty 's is a whiskey bar -- each has about 100 varieties of rum or whiskey , and a food menu
three bands usually perform each night at lefty 's and the bar always gets busy after 9 p.m. so what 's up with the bras on the moose heads ? " i once dared a customer on a hen night to sling a bra to the horn to win a free shot , " says webb
" lefty 's old time music hall and mermaid bar , 15 caxon st. , brisbane , australia ; daily 5 p.m. -3 a.m. ; +61 555 9447539 more hidden brisbane bars the mermaid is one of a handful of secrets bars in brisbane
walrus a bar at a famed historic hotel -- how secret can that be ? turns out the airy courtyard bar in the landmark regatta hotel is just a smokescreen for the walrus , the secret bar hidden beneath it
regatta hotel , 543 coronation drive , toowong , brisbane , australia ; daily 5 p.m. till late ; +61 7 3870 9595 cobbler though you might have difficulty finding it , the cobbler really is on browning street
cobbler bar , 7 browning st. , west end , brisbane , australia ; monday 5 p.m. - midnight , tuesday - thursday and sunday , 4 p.m. - midnight friday 1 p.m. - midnight , saturday 3 p.m. - midnight ; +61 430 217 621 bar inside kwan brothers kwan brothers is a hip restaurant in the trendy suburb of fortitude valley that serves asian street food - inspired dishes
step through a sliding door at the rear of the restaurant and you 'll find a little publicized bar that 's dark and cozy
kwan brothers , 43 alfred st. , fortitude valley , brisbane , australia ; monday - thursday noon - 3 p.m. , 5 - 11 p.m. , friday - sunday noon - 11 p.m. ; bar open till late ; +61 7 3251 6588