the u.s. and great britain have pulled their last forces out of strife - torn yemen , raising fears that the failed state will become even more of a breeding ground for terror groups plaguing the middle eastern and the west
over the weekend , the u.s. evacuated the last of its special operations forces -- including navy seals and army delta force troops -- amid the deteriorating security situation in the country , the state department said
on monday , a security source in the region familiar with the situation in yemen told cnn 's nic robertson that uk special forces had also left yemen in the last few days
the uk ministry of defence declined to comment
the u.s. move came a day after terrorists bombed two mosques in the capital , sanaa , on friday , killing at least 137 and wounding 357 others , according to yemen 's state - run saba news agency
yemen has been a key u.s. ally in the fight against al qaeda , allowing u.s. drones and special operations forces to stalk terrorists in the country
while state department spokesman jeff rathke said saturday that the u.s. would continue to " take action to disrupt continuing , imminent threats to the u.s. and our citizens , " the move left some wondering what role the u.s. could play with no forces on the ground
" i do n't think there is an active role for the u.s. other than intelligence and trying to see where the dust is going to settle , " said u.s. sen. angus king , a maine independent who serves on the senate armed services and intelligence committees
that raises the possibility of the already unstable country becoming an even more fertile environment for terror groups to collaborate , grow and export violence , according to robin wright , a security and defense analyst with the woodrow wilson center
on sunday , u.n. officials said the country appeared to be on a " rapid downward spiral
" in addition to counterterrorism issues , all sorts of geopolitical influences are at work in yemen -- chief among them the regional power play between regional rivals iran and saudis
sunni arab countries in the gulf cooperation council want to limit the influence of iran , particularly saudis , said cnn military analyst lt. col. francona
" so the saudis are beginning to feel a little threatened here and are hoping the yemen situation does n't spiral out of control
the fighting is taking a huge toll on yemen 's people and economy , said rafat al akhali , the country 's former youth minister