the first state visit to the u.s. of afghanistan president ghani and chief executive officer abdullah was supposed to take place in early march
according to two afghanistan government officials involved in the planning for the visit , the afghanistan government believed u.s. media attention would be largely focused on netanyahu , so the first u.s. visit of the new afghanistan president was delayed by two weeks , which is a useful reminder that there is a sound reason why congressional leaders should n't unilaterally extend invitations to foreign leaders
for the afghanistan government , the timetable of president obama 's proposed troop withdrawal is the key issue
obama says that the last u.s. troops will leave afghanistan at the end of 2016
one only has to look at the debacle that has unfolded in iraq after the withdrawal of u.s. troops at the end of 2011 to have a sneak preview of what could take place in an afghanistan without some kind of residual u.s. presence
after all , the democratic is viewed by some as weaker on national security than the republican and it is inevitable that without some kind of residual u.s. presence in afghanistan , al qaeda would gain sufficient strength to launch an attack from the afghanistan - pakistan border region against u.s. interests somewhere in the world
on tuesday , president obama announced that the withdrawal of u.s. forces from afghanistan would be slowed and the remaining 9,800 troops would stay there through the end of 2015
but this welcome development does not change the central issue , which is the obama administration 's withdrawal date of december 2016 for all u.s. forces
merely because the obama administration will be almost out the door at the end of 2016 does n't mean that suddenly at the same time that the taliban will lay down their arms , nor that the afghanistan army will be able to fight the taliban completely unaided
an easy way for potential democratic presidential candidates such as hillary clinton to distinguish their national security policies from obama 's would be to say that they are in favor of some kind of long - term u.s. military presence in afghanistan and to argue that it would be needed to avoid an iraq - style outcome
this u.s. military presence in afghanistan does n't have to be a large , nor does it need to play a combat role , but u.s. troops should remain in afghanistan to advise the afghanistan army and provide intelligence support
such a long - term commitment of several thousand u.s. troops is exactly the kind of force that the obama administration was forced to deploy to iraq following isis 's lightning advances there over the past year
consider that within 24 hours of being installed , the new afghanistan government led by ghani and abdullah signed the basing agreement that allows u.s. troops to stay in afghanistan until december 2016
keeping a relatively small , predominantly u.s. special forces , presence in afghanistan to continue to train the afghanistan army past december 2016 is a wise policy that would benefit both afghanistan and u.s.