the campaign to retake the city of tikrit from isis , also known as the islamic state , involves a curious mixture of iraq forces -- the army and air force , federal police , powerful shiite militia as well as sunni tribal fighters
a cnn team that 's seen the offensive at close quarters noted that iraq army commanders appeared to be taking a subordinate role to leaders of the shiite militia , notably hadi al ameri , leader of the badr organization
as isis fighters in the area probably number in the low thousands , it might seem odd that the iraq army is unable to take them on alone
after all , the security forces ( security forces ) received $ 20 billion of u.s. money between 2005 and 2012 -- for equipment , bases and training
so just why are the security forces incapable of reclaiming territory seized by isis ? and how long will it be before they can stand on their own feet ? the answers go back to the u.s. invasion of iraq in 2003 ; iraq 's military is starting over -- for the second or third time in a decade
one of the most controversial acts of the u.s. - led coalition provisional authority , which ran iraq following the ouster of saddam hussein , was to disband the iraq army
the decision , taken in may 2003 , " immediately created a large pool of unemployed and armed men who felt humiliated and hostile to the u.s. occupiers , " as james p. pfiffner put it in 2010
president george w. bush told his biographer robert draper in 2006 : " the policy had been to keep the [ iraq ] army intact ; did n't happen
in some places there were riots among demobilized soldiers ; at the same time training of iraq police was a desperately slow process because of the rapidly growing insurgency
in 2004 , as in 2014 , the security forces buckled as a sunni insurgency spread through northern and western iraq
billions of dollars were spent creating a new iraq army from scratch
over a seven - year period , more than $ 4 billion was spent on renovating and building iraq bases
logistical and maintenance support : $ 2.6 billion
supply of equipment : $ 3.4 billion ( in addition to what the iraq bought themselves
) training and staffing the iraq police : a cool $ 9.4 billion
with u.s. assistance and the " sons of iraq " program to coax sunni tribes into fighting al qaeda in iraq , violence did diminish in 2009 and 2010
but once u.s. forces left at the end of 2011 , and with them intelligence - gathering and training programs , things began to unravel
by then , the iraq security forces in their many guises had become an unwieldy machine that was more a welfare program than a fighting force -- providing wages to soldiers who lacked motivation and were frequently absent from duty
sophisticated u.s. equipment , such as m-1 abrams battle tanks , was not maintained
corruption was rife -- and political interference in the military grew exponentially
as then prime minister al-maliki tightened his grip on power between 2006 and 2013 , the high command of the iraq military became a political football -- with loyalty to al-maliki prized above competence
the institute for the study of war reported in 2013 , " the lack of oversight on military appointments has allowed al-maliki to choose his preferred officers ( nearly all shiite ) to head the most significant command positions in iraq
at the same time , the phenomenon of " ghost soldiers " went unchecked -- men who were either dead or awol but whose wages were still being paid , often to corrupt commanders
isis used speed , discipline and ruthlessness in equal measure -- attributes the iraq army did n't have
in june , the most respected religious authority among iraqi shi'ites , grand ayatollah ali al-sistani , appealed to iraq to mobilize against the enemy
the commander of iran 's revolutionary guards quds force , gen. suleimani , seems to have spent more time in iraq than iran since last summer and has been photographed around tikrit
and he says that " if the tikrit operation is successful it presents a lot of problems for the iraq government 's legitimacy -- somewhere down the road the iran and the pmu are going to demand payback
" the role of suleimani and al quds -- a foreign terrorist organization in washington 's view -- means that u.s. airpower has not been made available
" the u.s. may not like iran influence in iraq , " says harmer , " but what it absolutely can not do is provide direct support to an iran - led military operation
" u.s. - led efforts to train a new iraq army designed to defeat isis are well underway
" isis from well - entrenched defenses around mosul , iraq 's second largest city , seems well beyond the army 's capability
one of the greatest challenges -- politically -- will be to absorb the shiite militia and sunni tribal brigades into the security forces , rather than have them operate as independent armies