washington the us ambassador who resigned his post in 2012 amidst official criticism that he used a private email account for official business told cnn friday that he was " very surprised " to learn that his boss at the time , then - secretary of state hillary clinton , had been doing essentially the same thing at the same time
" i was very surprised to learn of the double standard , " former ambassador to kenya and air force general gration told cnn
gration noted that cheryl mills , the then - state dept. chief of staff " obviously knew secretary hillary clinton was using commercial email , yet she stated my use of gmail was one of the reasons i had to move on
" the retired air force major general , who flew 274 combat missions over iraq as a fighter pilot and served as president obama 's special envoy to sudan , recalled he had been " prohibited from sending a gmail message to a state dept. computer except in an emergency
" considering that " department of defense dot mil accounts , usaid accounts , and every kenya account used the same routers and security firewalls as a gmail account , " he took issue with state dept. protocols
" it did n't make sense to me that the state dept. would ban my ' gmail ' while letting all other commercial and foreign accounts through its computer firewall , " he told cnn
spokespeople at the state dept. repeatedly declined to address whether any sort of double standard had been applied and instead continually noted that in the state dept. inspector general report about the us embassy being run by gration there were " several concerns with management and leadership " discussed , not just about his use of private email
" gration said he makes " no apology for ' rocking the boat ' in the state dept. to improve physical security , to enhance cyber policy , and to conduct several other initiatives that the state dept. inspector general misrepresented to build the case that secretary hillary clinton 's chief of staff used to terminate my tenure as the us ambassador in 2012
" the state dept. 's continued referencing of the other allegations against gration came amidst fruitless attempts by cnn to ask the department spokespeople to explain why it was acceptable for hillary clinton to use private email to conduct official business given that the 2012 inspector general 's report against gration repeatedly hammered him for the use of " commercial email for official government business " which was considered to be " flouting of direct instructions to adhere to state dept. policy
" gration said that his " experience was somewhat different than secretary hillary clinton 's use of her commercial account , yet i was ' fired ' for the use of gmail in the us embassy , my insistence on improving our physical security posture , and other twisted and false allegations