boston it was 9:35 on a slow thursday night in april 2013 and mit police chief difava was about to call it quits
on his way out , he saw one of his rookie swing - shift officers , collier , sitting in his cruiser
" did you ever see collier alive again after that ? " assistant u.s. attorney weinreb asked
" less than an hour later , collier lay bleeding in his patrol car after being ambushed and shot in the head
difava and other officers , assisted by surveillance videos , 911 callers and a lone bicyclist who happened to be passing by , recounted collier 's last moments in the death penalty trial of admitted boston marathon bomber tsarnaev
the bicyclist , mit mathematics ph.d. candidate harman , pointed to tsarnaev in court and identified him as the man with " a big nose , " who he saw leaning into collier 's squad car
tsarnaev , who was 19 at the time , does not dispute that he was present when collier was killed on the evening of april 18 , nor does he deny that he participated in the bombings three days earlier that killed three people and hurt more than 240 others
prosecutors say tsarnaev and his older brother , tamerlan , killed collier because they wanted his gun
but tamerlan , 26 , would not survive the night
he was killed in a chase and gunbattle with police that began with reports of an " officer down " at mit
the mit police , who are designated as special officers by the massachusetts state police , patrol the sprawling campus in cambridge
collier 's beat was the area of north quad near main and vassar streets
sacco tried to summon collier on his police radio
sgt. henniger had returned to the station at the end of his shift , and had just passed collier on the way in
but when he heard dispatch could n't raise collier , he went back out to check on him
" i parked about 8 - 10 meters away from officer collier 's car , " henniger said
" jurors heard henniger 's frantic call over the police radio : " officer down ! officer down ! get me help ! officer down
" he called for an ambulance , shouting , " get on it ! ! ! " he and another officer pulled collier out of the squad car to attempt to revive him
the other officer urged collier to " hang in there , just hang in there , " and asked " who did this to you ? " collier did not respond
cambridge police officer o'hearn joined them , and took over applying chest compressions
collier was gurgling and blood was coming from his mouth " there was blood everywhere , " o'hearn added
" collier became the fourth victim of the tsarnaev brothers
campus surveillance cameras captured the encounter between collier and his killer
the video shows collier 's patrol car idling near the front of the koch institute building , and a person or two people rounding the corner and walking towards it
harman , the grad student on the bicycle , often used the word " they " in his testimony at first , but said he saw just one person as he pedaled past
later in his testimony , he began referring to " they " as " he