, march of 2015 two women , both , curiously , named " sally kohn , " recline and sip their drinks at they stare at the blue - green water , occasionally checking their addictive mobile devices for new emails , conversing about the third season of " house of cards " and the political mess in washington
the two sallys are debating whether sen. elizabeth warren should respond to the calls from the boston globe and others for her to enter the 2016 race , challenging likely frontrunner hillary clinton
sally " idealistic " kohn desperately and impatiently wants the world to be a fairer and more just place and thinks progress toward that goal could immeasurably be helped by a bold leader articulating and pushing for big ideas at the top of the national and global political hierarchy
this sally kohn is wearing a skimpy bikini
sally " pragmatic " kohn wants the world to be better too , but she 's all - too - aware of how progressive idealists are chewed up , spit out and drowned out by party politics
this sally kohn is skeptical of how much politics can be changed from the inside as well as how much politics these days can change the world , especially given entrenched partisanship
sally ( idealistic ) kohn : elizabeth warren is like the obi-wan kenobi of american politics today -- she 's our only hope
there 's no one else speaking as sharply and powerfully about inequality and economic populism
] sally i. kohn : first of all , you do n't know it 's a dead end
sally p. kohn : yeah , but in the latest cnn democrats primary poll , warren trails hillary clinton by 52 points
primaries are run state - by - state
sally p. kohn : in fairness , that poll was run by warren backers
that 's why she needs to run
sure , barack obama did it once , but do you really think the clinton machine will allow itself to be defeated twice ? sally i. kohn : ah , and that 's reason two why warren should run -- because even if she ca n't win , she will help shape the political debate and push hillary clinton to the left , especially around economic justice issues
sally i. kohn : all the more reason to run now
now is our nation 's moment , crawling out of the economic crisis , still riddled with unprecedented economic inequality , we do n't need elizabeth warren to be president in four years or eight years or 16
and is n't that exactly why she should n't run ? national big money political campaigns are where good ideas go to die
sally i. kohn : maybe elizabeth warren can be the candidate to change all that , the candidate for the people , not the political process -- who even appeals to and unites independent and conservative voters who know the economy is ridiculously rigged for the rich and want government to stop aiding and abetting injustice
] sally p. kohn : what i will say is that now is definitely the moment for a woman president ! and hillary clinton 's the one with the best shot
plus , for all her coziness with wall street and hawkish foreign policy , she 's still a bajillion times better than any of the republican options
and if hillary clinton might not do as much as we 'd like to fix economic inequality , let 's be clear -- republicans would just make it worse , like they did before
sally i. kohn : but no , that 's exactly why she has to run -- to make the party stronger , to make hillary clinton less economically centrist and quick on the military trigger
and if she does n't win the primaries , still great -- we 've sent a clear message to hillary clinton and forced her to be more populist