a nuclear deal with international powers on iranian 's nuclear program is within reach and achievable , iranian president rouhani told reporters saturday
the president believes that " clinching a general deal is easy , " according to the irna story , but hammering out agreements on certain details " will be a very tough and complicated job
after years of basic stalemates , iranian officials and representatives of the p5 +1 have managed to reach short - term agreements as they try to strike a larger deal
u.s. secretary of state kerry and iranian foreign minister zarif , joined these talks monday
kerry , addressing reporters saturday in lausanne before leaving for london , said " substantial progress " had been made toward reaching a deal but that " important gaps remain
" he insisted that the international powers involved in the talks , the p5 +1 -- consisting of germany and the five permanent members of the u.n. security council : the u.s. , russian , chinese , france and british -- were united in their determination to ensure that iranian 's nuclear program is purely peaceful
" we recognize that fundamental decisions have to be made now and they do n't get any easier as time goes by , " he said
" it is time to make hard decisions
we want the right deal that would make the world , including the u.s. and our closest partners and allies , safer and more secure , and that is our test
" u.s. president obama has made clear that he wants to achieve a " comprehensive and durable agreement " that is based on intensive verification of its implementation rather than trust , kerry added
british foreign minister hammond spoke for the group , echoing kerry but saying while " substantial progress has been made in some areas , " there were other areas that lacked agreement
" the time has come now for iranian in particular to make some very tough decisions if we are going to see progress made , " hammond said
the iranian president 's guarded optimism saturday -- which also happens to be nowruz , a holiday marking the start of spring and beginning of a new year in the persian calendar -- jibes with the progress cited recently by the iranian ' counterparts in the talks
iranian negotiators want them lifted immediately , while u.s. and european negotiators prefer they be phased out over several years , contingent on iranian meeting its end of the bargain
the speech was made without the approval of u.s. president obama
the next week , an open letter signed by 47 republican senators , addressing iranian 's leadership , noted that any agreement made with the u.s. administration that is not approved by the senate could be nullified by obama 's successor
" but iranian 's supreme leader ayatollah ayatollah , in his own nowruz address on saturday , noted the political divisions within the u.s. over the nuclear talks , iranian 's state - run press tv reported
he suggested the u.s. president 's nowruz message " included dishonest assertions and his claim of friendship for iranian people was not sincere , " he is quoted as saying