a u.s. air force veteran who allegedly tried to join isil in syria but was turned back by turkey authorities before he could get to the war - torn country entered a not guilty plea to terror - related charges wednesday in a federal court in new york
tairod pugh , accused of making the foiled attempt in january , was indicted by a grand jury on charges of trying to give material support to the terror group and obstruction of justice , the justice department said in a two - count indictment announced tuesday
among the evidence , prosecutors allege : investigators discovered on his laptop computer a letter saying he wanted to " use the talents and skills given to me by allah to establish and defend the islamic states , " and a chart of crossing points between turkey and syria , where isil controls some territory
who has been recruited to isil from the west ? pugh , a 47 - year - old convert to islam and a former new jersey resident who served in the air force from 1986 to 1990 , was arrested upon his return to the u.s. in january , the justice department said
" pugh , an u.s. citizen and former member of our military , allegedly abandoned his allegiance to the u.s. and sought to provide material support to isil , " assistant u.s. attorney general john carlin said , using an alternate acronym for the islamist terror group that controls territory in parts of iraq and syria
at his arraignment wednesday in u.s. district court in brooklyn , pugh appeared in a black t - shirt and khaki pants and stated his name
the defendant , a former avionics instrument system specialist in the air force , flew from egypt to turkey on january 10 , weeks after being fired from a middle east - based job as an airplane mechanic , u.s. authorities allege
in the indictment , u.s. authorities said turkey was likely suspicious pugh was headed for syria
pugh was deported to the u.s. , where agents with the fbi 's joint terrorism task force obtained a warrant for his devices , including the laptop , the department said
investigators found a letter from january addressed to a misha , whom they believe is his wife , authorities said
" in addition to that letter and the turkey / syria border chart , agents also found recent internet searches for information on " borders controlled by islam state , " as well as " internet searches for ' flames of war , ' an isil propaganda video , " and " downloaded videos , including one showing isil members executing prisoners , " the justice department said
pugh was arrested in asbury park , new jersey , on january 16
one year later , an associate told the fbi that pugh had expressed interest in traveling to chechnya to " fight jihad
according to pugh 's linkedin page , he listed himself as a maintenance manager for gryphon , a kuwait - based charter airline , since september 2014