the news that the u.s. military will charge army sgt. bowe bergdahl with desertion for abandoning his post in afghanistan revives a deeply disturbing and morally wrenching incident in u.s. 's troubled war in afghanistan
from the moment last year that the world learned about the prisoner - swap deal that secured his freedom , the questions that surrounded begdahl 's disappearance gained significance
based on the evidence that has come to public light , desertion seems the right charge against bowe bergdahl , whose comrades say he walked away , abandoning his commitments as a soldier in a war and creating new and greater dangers for them
was the u.s. right to negotiate a high - price trade ? did " leave no man behind " trump " no negotiating with terrorists " ? and if it did , did the importance of saving one man outweigh the dictate not to pay ransom even if that man was a traitor or a deserter ? new information about his disappearance and life of the people freed in exchange for bowe bergdahl make the case all the more troubling
bowe bergdahl , you will recall , spent five years as a prisoner of the haqqanis , a group allied with the taliban organization , u.s. 's principal enemy in afghanistan
the taliban handed the u.s. soldier to the haqqanis , who shuttled him between locations as they and their partners negotiated for his release , seeking to maximize the profit from their valuable captive
five taliban commanders were flown out of the u.s. prison at guantanamo , freed in exchange for the u.s. soldier whose disappearance many had already labeled a desertion
a strikingly pale bowe bergdahl , blinking painfully against the bright sun as he was handed over to u.s. officials
but from the moment bowe bergdahl went missing there had been questions
what has been the cost of bowe bergdahl 's odyssey ? some said the search for him cost the lives of six u.s. soldiers
" one of them , 2nd lt andrews , received a posthumous silver star for saving the lives of five soldiers during a mission that had shifted from searching for a taliban target to looking for bowe bergdahl
then there is the cost of signaling to the taliban , of telling all of u.s. 's enemies , that if they capture a u.s. service member they could trade him for a ransom
and there is another potential cost : the men who were freed in exchange for bowe bergdahl could go on to fight again
now bowe bergdahl will face his punishment ; he could be sentenced to life in prison for what the military says was desertion and misbehavior , and what his comrades said was a shameful betrayal -- one that cost lives
u.s. could not leave bowe bergdahl to die in a mountain cave , especially if it did not know with certainty the circumstances of his disappearance -- but even if it did
the trade -- bowe bergdahl for several hardened prisoners -- was a heart - splitting dilemma , but it was the right call .