a four - year - old girl made a life - saving 999 call after her mother collapsed - before telling the operator about frozen , her pet dog and santa
megan stratton has been handed an award and praised for summoning emergency crews to her mother charlotte , 32
mrs megan stratton had been feeling unwell before she collapsed at her home in lowestoft , suffolk , and started to have a seizure last father christmas
megan stratton ( centre ) saved the life of her mother charlotte ( left ) after she collapsed at home
her husband trevor ( right ) was out collecting medication at the time her husband trevor , also 32 , was out fetching some medication - but megan stratton knew what to do and calmly dialled 999
the youngster gave call handler alan her address before explaining that her mother was unwell and her father was out
when asked if she had any older siblings megan stratton tells the operator : ' lulu is here with me , but she is my pet dog '
and when asked her mother 's age , she replied : ' i do n't know how old she is
because she never tells me
i want to know how old ... when she 's better '
can you hear me ? megan : she ’s struggling ... she had another seizure
my dad has gone to get some medicine to eat o : is there someone else there ? have you got a big sister ? a big brother ? m : lulu is here with me , but she is my pet dog o : oh
lulu is your pet dog , is she ? and how old are you ? m : four o : four
you ’re doing really well for four
mummy has epilepsy ? m : no. but she has a seizures all day
sometimes she does and sometimes she does n’t o : ok what ’s your name ? m : megan stratton o : megan stratton
i ’ll just get her a cushion o : get her a cushion , yeah m ( to her mother ) : mummy , cushion m ( to the operator ) : she ’s got a cushion now o : have you ? well done
megan stratton , are you able to unlock the door so that the ambulance men can come in and see mummy ? m : no i ca n’t unlock it because the key is on something really high so i ca n’t do it ... o : we ’ve got policemen coming
i ’m going to have to tell father christmas how well you ’ve done , are n’t i ? m : yes
you ’ve done a really good job looking after mummy have n’t you ? m : what if someone else is already at the top ? o : well you ’ve just really , really done well and i ’m going to make sure father christmas puts you at the top of the list ... m : he wo n’t know because he is not coming to see you or will you go in the ambulance and go to the north pole to see him at his house ? o : i do n’t know if i can go to his house but i ’ve got ways of talking to father christmas from here so i can tell him ... i can send him a special message
( dog barks ) oh , that ’s just my dog megan stratton stayed with her mother , talked to her to keep her calm , stroked her back and fetched her a cushion and a blanket during the incident on december 15 police and ambulance arrived at the address just as mr stratton returned home and his wife was given the attention she needed
this week , officers presented megan stratton with the chief constable 's certificate of appreciation and her mother says she could not be prouder
mrs megan stratton has suffered from seizures in the past and had told megan stratton what to do if she ever fell ill when nobody else was around
she said : ' suffolk police called me back and explained what she 'd done and i was a bit stunned and once we knew we were really , really proud
megan stratton is pictured receiving an award and praised for summoning emergency crews to her mother charlotte , 32 ' we knew i have seizures regularly so what we do is , on the emergency button on the mobile phone , we have daddy 's number programmed and the ambulance , so it was quite easy for her to do
' call handler alan added : ' you quite often get young children phone up , but none as calm and composed as megan stratton
' it 's not very often you get a four - year - old who you can talk with quite so easily , who can guide you while you guide her and it made life so much easier
' temporary chief constable gareth wilson also praised the youngster and said the award went some way towards recognising her bravery
he said : ' megan stratton 's call to police was truly exceptional to listen to - it is very rare to hear a child handle a call in such a calm manner
' megan stratton gave a lot of information to alan for a child of her age and our chief constable 's certificate of appreciation goes some way toward recognising her and saying well done