just yesterday , steven fletcher , who has scored just seven times in two years for sunderland , suffered a twitter backlash after the photograph of him with his new Â£ 260,000 lamborghini supercar went viral
lamborghini : steven fletcher , who has scored just seven times in two years for sunderland , suffered a twitter backlash after the photograph of him with the supercar on the driveway of his home went viral but steven fletcher is n't the only footballer to use his social networking accounts to show off the trappings of wealth to thousands of fans
so who are some of the flashiest footballers around ? read on to find out ... andy carroll posted this picture of himself on holiday with the words : ' champagne spray anyone ? ? ? # savewaterspraychampagne ' billi mucklow , fiancee of andy carroll posted this snap of her new in - house beauty salon with the words : ' biggest shock of my life secret key , lead to a secret room in my new house ! my very own salon called " billutifuls " ' real madrid 's cristiano uploaded this picture with the words : ' morning ride ' cristiano also posted this snap : ' good morning ! leaving for training with this nice weather ' david beckham enjoys a coffee on board a private jet with the caption : ' next stop , h&m store on gran via ' david beckham could n't resist grinning as he posed for this snap with the words : ' enjoying the pool at marina bay sands ' arsenal 's mesut ã–zil uploaded this picture of himself on a private jet with the caption : ' good n8.home sweet home
. ' liverpool 's mario balotelli uploaded this picture of himself at the 4fkmotorsport showrooms in milan wigan atheltic 's jermaine posed this on instagram with the words : # tbt my old dbs ... ... we had fun we did jermaine also uploaded a snap of another of his sports cars with the words : ' my 3rd baby ... soon to be gone ! ! ' spurs player emmanuel adebayor has some of the flashiest clothing in the premier league wolves star bakary sako posted this snap of crystal - encrusted boots on his instagram with the words : ' i will be playing my 100 games for wolves this weekend so a special day deserve a special boots ' chelsea 's didier uploaded these snaps of himself on a helicopter in monaco with the words : ' flying man stays flyyyyy ! ' didier also posted these snaps of himself on a private jet with the words : ' we had an amazing day with extra nice people ' do n't follow chelsea 's john terry if you get holiday envy , the footballer posted this snap with the words : ' loving dubai ' john terry continued t'o post snaps of his holiday with the words : left : ' summer knee boarding.so proud of my babies , ' and right : what a great experience scuba diving at the atlantis ' blackpool fc player jamie o'hara likes to showcase his possessions