charged : stacie laughton , 31 , allegedly called in a bomb threat to a new hampshire hospital a new hampshire ex-official believed to be the first transgender person elected to a state legislature was charged on thursday with calling in a bomb threat to a hospital , police said
police arrested 31 - year - old stacie laughton of nashua on thursday following the february 27 threat to southern new hampshire medical center
police evacuated the building but found no suspicious device
an investigation led police to issue a warrant for barry c. laughton jr. 's arrest ; the nashua resident complied
in 2012 , barry c. laughton jr. was elected to the state house of representatives but never took the seat , resigning after reports of a prior felony conviction raised questions about laughton 's legal ability to serve
the state 's ballot law commission denied barry c. laughton jr. 's request to run again last year , saying barry c. laughton jr. 's 2008 convictions for identity fraud and falsifying evidence disqualified the would - be candidate until 2018 , when a suspended sentence ends
barry c. laughton jr. was charged on thursday with making a false report regarding explosives , a felony that can bring up to 7 years in prison if convicted
stacie laughton was born barry c. laughton jr. and was convicted twice in nashua before she ever turned 20
bomb threat : police arrested 31 - year - old stacie laughton of nashua on thursday following the february 27 threat to southern new hampshire medical center ( pictured ) police told the patch that in 2002 she was charged with domestic violence / criminal mischief after an argument with her father during which she smashed a plate
' those charges were eventually dropped , ' barry c. laughton jr. told the patch in 2012 following her resignation from her elected position
convicted felon : in 2012 , barry c. laughton jr. was elected to the state house of representatives but never took the seat , resigning after reports of a prior felony conviction raised questions about laughton 's legal ability to serve ' in fact , she still lives in the city , and we see each other from time to time , and we are pleasant