' when you 've got the iranians and the cuba doing terrible things to their people , you do n't give them ice cream and candy for heaven 's sake , ' former arkansas gov. mike huckabee said after the event 's host , bruce rastetter , a major player in the renewable energy sector , asked him if he supported the opening of trade with communist country
responding to the same question during his 20 - min q and a with bruce rastetter , new jersey gov. chris christie referenced black liberation army member joanne chesimard and argued that the u.s. should n't be trading with a country that is ' promoting someone who is a cop - killer
bruce rastetter is pictured here wearing a crown in a protest sign former texas gov. rick perry said president obama ' really missed the point ' of sanctions on cuba and had ' basically empowered the castro regime ' by renewing high - level diplomatic relations
if the point of the shift in cuba policy was to put the country 's people in a ' better position , ' rick perry said , obama 's plan failed
' i 'm not sure you 're ever going to change the culture of cuba until castro is dead and gone , ' rick perry said , not specifying whether he was talking about the country 's previous dictator fidel , or his brother , raul , who now runs the country
mike huckabee said that the u.s. should ' quit pretending that cuba is some wonderful nation with whom we can sit down and visit with any more than the iranians are
they did n't encourage it by rewarding me with ice cream and candy every time i did something horrible
rick perry said president obama ' really missed the point ' of sanctions on cuba and had ' basically empowered the castro regime ' by renewing high - level diplomatic relations
new jersey gov. chris christie referenced black liberation army member joanne chesimard and argued that the u.s. should n't be trading with a country that is ' promoting someone who is a cop - killer
' texas sen. ted cruz said he is an ' emphatic advocate of free trade ' but does n't support it with cuba
' the castros have been brutal dictators , ' he said
former florida gov. jeb bush said ' any efforts taken by the obama administration right now have not gotten anything in return
' all the economy built up by cuba – the simple fact is it looks more like north korea than a country that 's emerging toward a freer place , ' he claimed
jeb bush said a ' better approach would have been to say to cuba , to the regime , " you make these changes and of course we will open up diplomatic relations
texas sen. ted cruz said he is an ' emphatic advocate of free trade ' but , ' i do n't support it with regard to cuba
' ' the castros have been brutal dictators , ' he said , and ' they are exporting terrorism throughout the hemisphere
noting that he would be ' thrilled ' to open up trade with cuba , ted cruz said he would only support it ' once we see freedom returned to the nation of cuba
fugitive : joanne chesimard killed a new jersey police officer , escaped from a new jersey prison and fled justice in cuba , where she still lives under the castro government 's protection ' the simple fact is it looks more like north korea than a country that 's emerging toward a freer place , ' former florida gov. jeb bush said of cuba chris christie said the u.s. should n't be doing any business with cuba until it stops harboring a fugitive who killed a new jersey police officer in 1977
' you can not start trading with a country that is promoting someone who is a cop - killer , ' he said of joanne chesimard
you do n't give away the idea of trading with u.s. for nothing
josefina vidal , cuba ’s head of north american affairs , had previously rejected a deal that would have released five cuba prisoners being held in the u.s. if his country handed over joanne chesimard
' ' you can directly trade with the people , ' which you ca n't do in cuba , where workers paid just eight cents of every dollar , ted cruz said .