sam warburton is set to captain wales for a record 34th time in the six nations showdown against ireland in cardiff on saturday
simon talks to sam warburton and wales wing legend shane williams about the game which could decide the six nations
simon : you 'll become wales 's most - capped captain on saturday
what 's the secret ? sam warburton : i take it with a pinch of salt because there are more games now than 30 years ago
sportsmail 's simon speaks to wales captain sam warburton and former test winger shane williams sam warburton ( left ) is set to captain wales for a record 34th time against ireland in cardiff on saturday former wales and lions winger shane williams believes his sam warburton 's side are still in the running for the title simon : ryan jones previously held the record , how do the two compare ? shane williams : to be captain , you have to be well liked by the players
sam warburton came in at the latter stage of my career and was much younger than me , so it was a little strange to have him as captain
but he impressed me straight away and , like ryan jones , he trained hard and played hard
simon : wales are still in the running for the championship despite losing to england in round one
are there shades of 2013 ? sam warburton : it 's going that way
ryan jones sat us down and gave us the belief that we needed
shane williams : fate is always in your hands with the six nations , that 's what makes it special
it 's an open championship
ireland are favourites to win in cardiff but you ca n't write anyone off — one result can change everything
simon : jonathan sexton ran the show against england
how much of a threat is he ? sam warburton : if i 'm being honest , i did n't see the game live because i was watching tottenham v chelsea in the capital one cup final
ryan jones ( centre ) previously held the record for wales 's most - capped captain simon : how do you defend against jonathan sexton and murray 's kicking game ? shane williams : the game is changing and there 's a massive focus on rugby league style kicks
simon : who would you select in the welsh back - three ? shane williams : defensively , leigh halfpenny is the best full back in the world
on the other wing i would keep liam williams , who 's the form player in wales
scott baldwin and luke charteris were both very good in the pack against france — especially with the 100 per cent lineout — and i would n't make any changes for the weekend … if it is n't broken do n't fix it ! fly half jonathan sexton ( right ) has been superb for ireland during this years 's tournament simon : can the welsh half - backs match the irish ? shane williams : i 've been very impressed with biggar and rhys webb
it helps that they 've been together at ospreys and they will have to be on top of their game against murray and jonathan sexton , because they 're the world 's in - form combination
simon : england were blitzed at the breakdown in dublin , are you putting extra focus on that area ? sam warburton : out of all the six nations teams i 've played against , ireland have been the most effective at the breakdown
simon : ireland have lost just twice in cardiff in 32 years , why are they so successful ? shane williams : in the nicest possible way , they take an arrogant approach and expect to win every game
wales head coach warren ( centre ) will be pitting his wits against fellow kiwi schmidt this week simon : what 's the key to countering that record ? sam warburton : like every international match , there are three areas : set piece , breakdown , kicking game
i think the breakdown and the kicking game will be the two key areas against ireland
wales winger george north makes a strong carry during his side 's victory against france in paris simon : wales are still in the running … how much of a world cup confidence boost would it be to win the six nations ? sam warburton : i do n't think the six nations will have much bearing on the world cup
last year 's autumn campaign finished well for us but that did n't transfer into the first game against england
sam warburton and shane williams are ambassadors for guinness , official partner of welsh rugby