former u.s. representative jackson jr. has been released from an alabama prison , a year and a half after his guilty plea to illegally spending $ 750,000 in campaign funds on furs , home decor , rock memorabilia and vacations
his father , reverend jackson , confirmed to wgn that he was with his son and they were on their way to a halfway house in dc the 50 - year - old jackson will serve the remainder of his sentence at the halfway house
jackson 's wife must serve a related , yearlong term after her husband completes his sentence
the rev. jackson said his son , former u.s. rep. jackson jr. , has been released and will serve the remainder of his sentence at a dc halfway house former illinois rep jesse jackson jr and his wife , sandra , were both convicted of spending more than $ 750,000 campaign funds on personal items
he was released from prison on thursday jackson served his time at the butner federal correctional complex outside of raleigh , north carolina – the same prison where investment fraudster bernie madoff is incarcerated jackson jr. 's father , rev. jackson ( left ) and his wife jacqueline lavinia brown ( right ) attended court sessions in 2013 ( pictured )
rev jackson confirmed to wgn that he is with his son and they are on their way to a halfway house in dc jackson 's plea deal was arranged just two days after he was re-elected to represent his illinois congressional district
jackson began the sentence on november 1 , 2013
she pleaded guilty to a single charge of filing a false tax return in an attempt to hide the fraud
court documents showed that sandra , a chicago city councilwoman when she was charged , had spent her husband 's campaign funds on vacations , electronics and furs
she was ordered to pay $ 22,000 in restitution , in addition to the $ 750,000 her husband had to pay back
jackson jr. sold his dc town house ( pictured ) to help pay a $ 750,000 forfeiture he owed after his guilty plea the us marshals service auctioned off some of the jacksons ' ill - gotten goods – including these two furs kennedy said he was in the area giving a speech on children 's mental health and decided to visit jackson on monday
he said jackson , 50 , told him he would be picked up from prison by his wife , sandra ; his two children ; his father , the rev. jackson ; and his mother , jacqueline jackson
his family will then take him to the halfway house
kennedy said he had not seen jackson jr. since august 2012 , when he visited him at the mayo clinic in minnesota after jackson took a leave from congress and checked himself in for bipolar disorder
sumptuous : jackson 's dc house got a decorator 's touch , courtesy of his campaign donors rock history : among the items auctioned by the us marshals service was this framed and autographed cymbal from michael jackson 's last concert tour bureau of prisons spokesman edmond ross said he could not confirm that jackson would be released to a halfway house , saying the bureau does not consider such plans public information