the black hawk helicopter that crashed in dense fog during a training mission in florida was carrying seven marine from special operations command forces based in north carolina , and four national guard soldiers from louisiana
. now however , the names and identities of the seven marine have been revealed
andrew c. seif , 26 , grew up playing soldier in his backyard and joined the marine just weeks after graduating from high school , according to an article about his award published this week in the camp lejeune , the post newspaper
andrew c. seif and his teammate , sgt. hansen , were closing in on one of western afghanistan 's bomb experts , according to the paper
andrew c. seif returned fire , advanced alone across the compound and found the targeted bomb - maker
' the fact that ( andrew c. seif ) continued to fight through the objective to get sgt. hansen taken care of , putting himself in the line of fire , speaks volumes to who he is and demonstrates that he would never leave a marine behind , ' said maj. gen. joseph l. osterman
andrew c. seif 's wife was at his side when he received the medal
staff sgt. trevor p. blaylock , 29 , was born in lake orion , michigan , and swam on the varsity swim team
he attended henry ford community college for one year before joining the marine in 2006
he served two tours in iraq in 2007 and 2008
his decorations include the navy and marine corps commendation medal with valor
master sgt. thomas a. saunders ( left ) and staff sgt. liam flynn ( right ) born in bonn , germany , master sgt. thomas a. saunders , 33 , enlisted in the marine after graduating from high school in virginia
he deployed to kosovo and served with special operations teams in iraq and afghanistan before years before joining a marine special operations unit in 2010
he was married to a fellow marine based at camp lejeune , and the couple has one son , according to an award by the marine corps association & foundation naming thomas a. saunders its special forces operator of 2014
born in reading , england , staff sgt. liam flynn , 33 , moved to queens , new york in 2002
he served tours of duty in iraq and afghanistan before joining the marine ' special operations force in 2011 and returning to afghanistan in 2012
liam flynn 's heroism was honored by receiving three navy and marine corps achievement medals with valor and the bronze star with valor
capt. stanford henry shaw iii ( left ) and staff sgt. marcus s. bawol ( right ) capt. stanford henry shaw iii , 31 , was from basking ridge , new jersey , and attended ridge high school , where he was student government president and captain of the varsity lacrosse team
he attended the united states naval academy and became a commissioned marine officer upon graduation in 2006
he served two tours of duty in iraq in 2007 and 2009 , according to information provided by the marine at camp lejeune
staff sgt. marcus s. bawol of warren , michigan , " loved everything about the military , " said his sister , peek
staff sgt. kerry michael kemp ( above ) , 27 , was the proud father of a baby just shy of her first birthday debris : pentagon officials say the 11 on board are presumed and that the mission is now one of search and recover staff sgt. kerry michael kemp , 27 , was the proud father of a baby just shy of her first birthday and loved horsing around with his nephews
he was a " proud marine , a loving husband and most wonderful father , " she said
a small memorial stands in the sand along highway 98 in navarre , florida ' it was certainly a high - impact crash , ' said eglin air force base fire chief mark giuliano , and ' very , very , very dense fog ' was complicating the response