need some help and inspiration deciding who to back at cheltenham ? sportsmail 's peter scudamore and marcus townend reveal their favourites while sky sports news hq presenter alex hammond and other celebrities have also shared their tips for the festival
peter scudamore eight - time champion jockey and rider of 13 festival winners douvan ( supreme novices ’ hurdle , 1.30 ) rated one of the best horses irish trainer willie mullins has brought to the meeting , which is saying something
having beaten some very decent opposition without coming off the bridle , it is impossible to truly measure his merit but the vibes are strong and he should be able to successfully start what could be an amazing afternoon for willie mullins and his stable jockey walsh
l’ami serge looks best of the british but that might not be good enough
best odds : 13 - 8 douvan , pictured at the gallops , is rated one of the best horses willie mullins has brought to the meeting un de sceaux ( arkle challenge trophy , 2.05 ) another willie mullins - trained hot - pot. fell when clear on his steeplechasing debut but has since pulverised some good performers including tuesday ’s rival clarcam by 15 lengths in january
some fear his temperament might get the better of him given the atmosphere but he was far more tractable for walsh on that last run
best odds : 8 - 13 the new one is peter scudamore 's tip to beat favourite faugheen and hurricane fly marcus townend seedling ( supreme novices ’ hurdle , 1.30 ) fair form last season but really flourished this term winning all three races
best odds : 16 - 1 sgt reckless was a fast finishing fourth in last year 's supreme novices ' hurdle sky sports news hq ' alex hammond is backing the new one and the celebs ... here 's who the celebs are backing in the champion hurdle
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... hayley turner - professional jockey faugheen willie mullins ’ star gelding is one of my strongest fancies for the whole of the festival week
alex hammond - sky sports news hq presenter the new one unlucky in this race last year and i prefer to back a proven hurdler rather than one with potential
iwan thomas-former 400m athlete and tv presenter faugheen the popular choice but i hope he can live up to the nickname ‘ faugheen the machine ’ .