former u.s. sen. john danforth denounced the ugly nature of u.s. politics tuesday while eulogizing missouri auditor schweich , suggesting that political bullying and an anti-semitic whisper campaign led his friend to kill himself
john danforth expressed ' overwhelming anger that politics has gone so hideously wrong ' as he spoke at a memorial services that drew many of missouri 's top elected officials and hundreds of others to the episcopal that schweich had attended in suburban st. louis
' schweich , 54 , fatally shot himself last thursday in what police say was an apparent suicide at his home in clayton
missouri 's top elected officials and hundreds of others gathered tuesday at the church of st michael and st. george in clayton for the memorial services of state auditor schweich former u.s. senator john danforth ( left ) delivered the euology at the service , and said campaign bullying was to blame for schweich 's ( right ) suicide
schweich was running for governor at the time of his death he had launched a campaign for the gop nomination for governor just a month before his death and was already locked in a contentious primary with hanaway , a former missouri house speaker and u.s. attorney
john danforth , who is an ordained episcopal priest , served 18 years as a gop senator before retiring in 1995 and remains one of the more respected elder statesmen of missouri politics
st. louis mayor francis slay stands at the rear , right , of an overflowing church of st. michael and st. george in clayton , missouri , on tuesday , march 3 , 2015 , for the funeral for missouri state auditor schweich , who fatally shot himself last thursday in what police say was an apparent suicide at his home in clayton
( ap photo / st. louis post-dispatch , robert cohen , pool ) former sen. john danforth leaves the church of st. michael and st. george in clayton , missouri , after delivering the eulogy at the funeral for schweich
even though schweich was an ordained episcopal priest , he was allegedly mocked for his jewish ancestry during the race missouri lt. gov. peter kinder leaves church on tuesday , march 3 , 2015 , after attending schweich 's funeral former u.s. sen. christopher ' kit ' bond also attended the tuesday services for schweich but john danforth said schweich was particularly distraught by what he perceived to be an anti-semitic whispering campaign by the chairman of the republican party , who schweich said had been telling people that schweich was jewish
schweich was christian , but had some jewish ancestry and had said his grandfather had long - encouraged him to stand up to anti-semitism
the party chairman , hancock , has denied making anti-semitic remarks , though he has acknowledged he mistakenly believed schweich was jewish and may have mentioned it in an off - hand way to some people
emergency services were called to schweich 's home ( pictured ) at 9:48am on thursday morning , seven minutes after he left a voicemail with st. louis today reporter tony messenger john danforth recited a passage from the gospel of matthew in which jesus describes as blessed those ' who are persecuted for righteousness sake ' and against whom others ' utter all kinds of evil against you on my behalf
on the morning of his death , schweich had invited reporters for ap and the st. louis post-dispatch to his home for an afternoon interview , saying he was ready to go public with the allegations about the anti-semitic campaign