flag - waving supporters of the u.s. flooded the streets of prague today to cheer on a highly visible display of u.s. military might rolling through eastern europe
dozens of stars and stripes flags , as well as symbols of the nato military alliance , thronged the capital of the czech republic as u.s. soldiers were given a warm welcome by the locals
it will finish in germany are you watching , vlad ? the u.s. army 's stryker armored assault vehicles , above , were supported by air force fighter jets and u.s. army attack choppers for parts of the route the armored column is headed to an army base in vilseck , germany , in a journey spanning more than 1,000 miles
happy to see them : czech republic locals were pleased to see an u.s. military presence as fears continue over russian 's military action in the region bringing the sunshine : the overt military operation is designed to reassure eastern europe that the u.s. is ready to act shaking hands : a czech republic man approached an u.s. army reconnaissance vehicle to greet a soldier in person big guns : the u.s. has rolled its heavy arms more than a thousand miles from estonia , with an eventual destination of germany the dragoon ride convoy began in three separate branches ; one in talinn , estonia , one in vilnius , linthuania and one in drawsko pomorskie , poland
' it will allow all units involved an opportunity to exercise key command and control systems across all levels of command , test their unit leadership and maintenance capabilities , while simultaneously providing a highly - visible demonstration of u.s. commitment to its nato allies and demonstrating nato ’s ability to move military forces freely across allied borders in close cooperation
' lining the streets : crowds are pictured above earlier in the mission , waving in support from the czech republic border waving : soldiers in heavy camo waved to the crowds on their long journey ' stay with us ! ' : the message from these czech republic supporters was unambiguous amid fears over putin 's russian air support : u.s. army helicopters hovered overhead parts of the march , pictured above in drawsko pomorskie , poland local flavor : an u.s. soldier hands a beer to a colleague as they pause in prague on their long journey