a british backpacker who wrote a romantic note to locate a handsome stranger after spotting him on a new zealand beach has finally met her romeo for the first time
sarah milne , from glasgow , left a handmade poster for the man , who she saw in picton on friday and described as ' shirtless , wearing black shorts with stars tattooed on his torso and running with a curly , bouncy and blonde dog '
in her note , entitled ' is this you ? ' , she invited the mystery stranger to meet her on the same beach on tuesday
then on tuesday at 2pm , in front of a gathering crowd waiting to see the two finally introduce themselves , william scott chalmers came forward to meet the note 's author , sarah milne , an artist , on the picturesque foreshore
sarah milne , who is originally from the west coast of scotland , studied at glasgow school of arts before backpacking in new zealand where she will stay for another two months
mr william scott chalmers came forward on sunday morning to reveal himself as the mystery man , and told daily mail australia that he planned on heading down to the picturesque spot to ask his brunette admirer on a date for the evening
' he knew it was me because i 'm the only guy in picton who has star tattoos , johnny - bravo hair and a labradoodle
' mr william scott chalmers said he and his housemate drove down to the shore in the dark to try and find the note , and that even when he saw it for himself , he had a hard time believing it was real
sarah milne was greeted at the picturesque meeting spot with great fanfare after their story had generated huge publicity the glasgow artist was greeted as she stepped off her ferry to a sign that said ' here 's to a happy ending '
but just going up to her and asking to chat is a bit out of the question with all the attention , so i 'm just going to have to skip a step and ask if she wants to have dinner tonight , ' mr william scott chalmers told daily mail australia
' would you like to go for a drink / coffee / walk ? ? ? i 'm in wellington just now , my ferry arrives back in picton on tuesday 3rd
mr william scott chalmers has revealed himself as the mystery man who captured the heart of the mystery woman he said he was looking forward to tuesday and meeting his mystery girl ' i 'll be sitting on the grass , watching the sea from 1 - 1.30pm onwards on tuesday ... maybe you 'll run past again ? ! ? ' mr william scott chalmers said his mother had called him because she had been told of the sign and thought it was such a coincidence that the man described in the sign had star tattoos as well
the signs were posted on beachcomber fun cruises facebook page and has sparked an online debate ' picton is a pretty small town and from the amount of people who have told me they 're going to come down and watch what happens it sounds like everyone i know will be there
' it may even bring a dozen or so people back on tuesday , intrigued ... who is this girl with the long brown hair and the boy with the star tattoos and the dog and will they meet for a drink ? ' i will , on my return to picton on tuesday , remove it myself ... whatever the ending may be