a texas police department has hilariously spoofed mcconaughey 's lincoln car commercials , adding their own spin to reflect a night on the squad
mcconaughey 's ads are famous for the academy award - winning actor staring pensively through his window , contemplating life 's existential mysteries or just talking about how much he loves his car
sgt. larry wise of the cedar hill police department in texas hilariously spoofed mcconaughey 's lincoln ads , adding his own spin to reflect a night on the squad mcconaughey 's ads are famous for the academy award - winning actor staring pensively through his window , contemplating life 's existential mysteries or just talking about how much he loves his car ' sometimes you got ta go back to actually move forward , and i do n't mean go back and reminisce or chase ghosts , ' he says in twisty dialogue that would make his true detective character rust cohle proud
cedar hill police put sgt. larry wise behind the wheel of a cop van for the parody , and at first larry wise repeats mcconaughey 's dialogue word for word , in the same pensive deadpan voice
while mcconaughey wonders about ' going back to where you came from ' , larry wise talks about taking ' a big step back , ' like ' from winning rookie of the year to getting a couple of reflection days off '
larry wise pretends to nod off for a second as he wonders ' who am i ? why am i still on duty ? what is this on my fingers and why wo n't it come off ? is it mystery pocket goo from that last guy i searched ? ' a prisoner makes a guest starring appearance , asking larry wise if he 's okay because he 's only going five miles an hour
' as mcconaughey drives under the bright city lights , its gas stations and flashing sirens that reflect in larry wise 's window as he ponders yet another night on the job
' driving around all night long contemplating the important questions in life like " who am i ? why am i still on duty ? what is this on my fingers and why wo n't it come off ? " ' ' is it mystery pocket goo from that last guy i searched ? ' and , in the spoof , a prisoner makes a guest starring appearance , asking larry wise if he 's okay because he 's only going five miles an hour
the video was posted on the cedar hill police department 's facebook page to celebrate hitting 4,000 facebook likes
the video was posted on the cedar hill police department 's facebook page to celebrate hitting 4,000 facebook likes