precocious amateur bellis says she 's ready to take on the best of the pros - serena williams
bellis , a 15 - year - old american who made a big splash at last year 's u.s. open , advanced friday to a potential third - round match against serena williams by beating zarina diyas 6 - 2 , 6 - 1
serena williams ' second - round match friday night against monica niculescu was postponed until saturday because of rain
catherine " cici ' bellis of the american , pictured at the u.s. open this summer , advannced at the miami open on friday and may have a chance to go against serena williams ' it 's going to be really fun , ' bellis said
' sloane stephens won an all - american match on the stadium court , converting five of six break - point chances to beat no. 17 keys 6 - 4 , 6 - 2
' i just kind of let the emotions get to me , ' the 20 - year - old keys said
' new opponent ? : cici bellis bellis is already relishing the chance to take on the 19 - time grand slam champion serena williams ( pictured ) after her recent win against zarina diyas no. 2 - seeded nadal , showing no ill effects from an ankle injury suffered in practice monday , defeated fellow spaniard nicolas almagro 6 - 4 , 6 - 2
she won 6 - 4 , 2 - 6 , 6 - 1 against wild card nicole vaidisova , a two - time grand slam semifinalist mounting a comeback from two shoulder operations
two - time champion andy murray beat american donald young 6 - 4 , 6 - 2
american sam querrey had 19 aces but lost to no. 15 kevin anderson 6 - 7 ( 5 ) , 7 - 6 ( 3 ) , 6 - 4
zarina diyas of kazakhstan shakes hands with catherine " cici ' bellis of the american at the u.s. open last year and on friday at the miami open bellis beat zarina diyas 6 - 2 , 6 - 1 ' some of my best tennis i have played here in these courts
' two - time champion azarenka reached the third round by beating no. 20 jelena jankovic 6 - 1 , 6 - 1
suddenly a celebrity , bellis then lost to zarina diyas in the second round
oppents : zarina diyas of kazakhstan returns a shot against catherine " cici ' bellis of the united statesduring their women 's singles second round match on day four of the 2014 u.s. open last year ' at the u.s. open i was really like caught up in all the kind of hype that was going on
' you ca n't really think about who you 're playing
it 's just a ball that 's coming back on the other side of the court