video footage has emerged showing a naked air force veteran running around his atlanta apartment complex before police arrived on the scene and shot him dead
in the footage obtained by wsbtv , anthony ' hill , 27 , can be seen walking outside the heights at chamblee apartment complex , climbing balconies and crawling around on the floor
police responded to reports that an unclothed man was running around the complex and banging on people 's doors
i think the police officer thought he was going to attack , so he shot him
the officer , who is white , is a seven - year veteran of the dekalb county police department
veteran : police said it was reasonable to assume that hill , who was an air force veteran who had served in the middle east , was suffering from a mental illness at the time of the incident killed : hill , pictured with his girlfriend bridget , was shot after he ran at the officer , police have said heartbroken : bridget took to twitter on monday to share her anguish over the death of her boyfriend shocked : bridget said the couple had been celebrating three years together on monday he added that he could ' reasonably assume ' that hill was possible suffering from mental illness at the time , given his behavior
in his final facebook post on monday morning , hill wrote : ' where i once saw death i only see life
' social media also shows hill was an air force veteran who had served in the middle east
his girlfriend , bridget anderson , wrote on twitter on monday : ' my boyfriend was shot and killed today by an officer
' i thought cops were suppose to protect and serve ? ? ? ? they took the love of my life away ! ! ! ! ! ' she added on twitter that monday had been their three - year anniversary
scene : hill was shot twice by a white officer at the heights of chamblee apartment complex in atlanta dekalb county police chief dr alexander , pictured last year , said the officer was also carrying a taser ' who will i share my secrets with now ? ' she wrote
on the same day , an officer in madison , wisconsin fatally shot a biracial 19 - year - old , prompting some 2,000 students to march in the state 's capital on monday