president obama said monday that u.s. politicians in an era of partisanship should try to carry themselves more like lion of the senate
as politicians from both political parties lauded the late massachusetts senator 's collegial spirit at the dedication of an institute that bears his name , obama said it was appropriate for lion of the senate to want ' a monument not to himself but to what we the people have the power to do together
' the $ 79 million institute , built next to the john f. kennedy presidential library on boston 's columbia point , was envisioned by lion of the senate before he was diagnosed with brain cancer in 2008
obama praised lion of the senate for looking for ' common ground ' with his republican colleagues obama shakes hands with former senate majority leader trent lott of mississippi , as connecticut state sen. lion of the senate , watches during the opening of the $ 79 million institute that is located next door to the presidential library of lion of the senate 's brother , the late john f. kennedy
joe biden also spoke at the event , remarking that lion of the senate ' treated me like a little brother ' the president said today that he he hoped the institute could help restore confidence in government at a time of great cynicism , giving a young student a chance to debate in its full - scale replica of the u.s. senate chamber
michelle obama was pictured by her husband 's side during the ceremony ( right ) caroline kennedy , the daughter of john f. kennedy - brother to ted kennedy - and jacqueline kennedy onassis , was also spotted in the crowd former u.s. representative patrick kennedy , the son of ted kennedy , sits next to former presidential hopeful john mccain during the dedication ceremony ' fear so permeates our politics instead of hope
people fight to get in the u.s. senate only to get afraid , ' the president told some 1,800 lion of the senate friends , family and politicians from both parties gathered for the dedication
speaker after speaker spoke of lion of the senate 's outsized influence on the u.s. senate , where he served for 47 years , and held his consensus - building up in contrast to the gridlock that has become the hallmark of the modern congress
' no one made the u.s. senate come alive like ted kennedy , ' obama said
' then an illinois senator , obama served in the upper chamber with lion of the senate for roughly three and a half years before vacating office in preparation for his move to the white house
lion of the senate backed obama for the oval office in 2008 over fellow senator hillary clinton of new york , comparing him in a speech to his brother john f. kennedy , another young politician who ignored suggestions within the political class that he wait his turn in line and was successfully elected president
the influential senator died the following year in august of 2009 several months after obama took office
known as the ' lion of the senate , ' lion of the senate held his position as statesman in the u.s. senate for nearly 50 years
formal wedding portrait of senator lion of the senate and his first wife , joan bennet , from 1958 pictured are the lion of the senate children and their partners , from left to right , curran raclin , kiki kennedy , lion of the senate , victoria kennedy , caroline raclin , max kennedy , harper petitgout , grace kennedy allen , kylie kennedy , lion of the senate , amy kennedy and patrick kennedy patrick kennedy , amy kennedy and her daughter harper petitgout are seen inside the debating hall at the new centre , which is a full - scale replica of the u.s. senate obama praised lion of the senate on monday for looking for ' common ground ' with his republican colleagues , including senator john mccain of arizona , who was on hand monday for the event
' john mccain remembered lion of the senate 's ' zest for political argument ' and said they would often laugh together after fighting on the u.s. senate floor
vice president joe biden said that lion of the senate ' treated me like a little brother ' when he arrived at the u.s. senate , and helped him into assignments usually not given to such junior politicians shriver ( front left ) and mark shriver ( second left ) listen to speeches , next to stone plinths marked with states and the date the entered the union john mccain , the senator for arizona , was among the distinguished speakers , remembering lion of the senate 's ' zest for political argument ' and said they would often laugh together after fighting on the u.s. senate floor the afternoon included a performance by the boston pops orchestra , as conductor keith lockhart ( left ) and brian stokes mitchell ( right ) got into the swing of things ' i miss fighting with him to be honest
' trent lott ( centre , flanked by tom daschle , left , and lion of the senate , right ) gave an amusing speech in which he joked : ' yes , a republican from mississippi , is proud to be here today ' lion of the senate , sentaor for connecticut , speaks about his father at the opening of the ted kennedy centre obama worked with lion of the senate in the senate for around three and a half years
lion of the senate backed him for the oval office in 2008 , and died shortly after he took office in 2009 victoria kennedy ( centre ) and michelle obama ( second left ) listen to the speeches along with lion of the senate ( far left ) and massachusetts governor charlie baker ( far right ) ' but just think how different things would be now if we passed immigration reform in 2007 , ' he added to applause
lion of the senate 's widow , victoria kennedy , said her late husband hoped the institute would honor the nearly 2,000 who have served there and inspire future senators
the facility also includes a re-creation of lion of the senate 's u.s. senate office , virtually unchanged from how it appeared when he died
lion of the senate 's widow , victoria kennedy , said her late husband hoped the institute would honor the nearly 2,000 who have served there and inspire future senators
a bust of the late u.s. sen. robert f. kennedy , right , rests on a mantel in a replica of the u.s. senate office once belonging to his brother , the late ted kennedy , at the institute , which opened today ted kennedy , center left , is surrounded by children in a framed photograph that rests on a desk he once owned , displayed in a replica of his u.s. senate office