now , ashley and tyson gardner have brought home the last of their four daughters from hospital
in one of the images , ashley is pictured beaming in a denim jacket and a black - and - white dress as she and tyson gardner hold a car seat carrying their daughter , who weighs just over 4lbs , on saturday
above , the couple are pictured beaming as they hold a car seat carrying tiny indie mae , who weighs just over 4lbs emotional : the couple - who spent eight years battling infertility before conceiving quadruplets - embrace in the neonatal intensive care unit at utah valley regional medical center shortly before taking indie home home at last : the gardners posted the above pictures to their dedicated facebook page on saturday , telling their 420,000 followers : ' best day of our lives ! indie is home ! our whole family is home together ! ' in others , the gardners - who welcomed their quadruplets into the world on december 28 following ivf - are seen cuddling each other and posing with nurse destiny avery and dr stephen minton
once home , the couple posted the pictures to their dedicated facebook page , telling their 420,000 followers : ' best day of our lives ! indie is home ! our whole family is home together ! ' they added : ' the emotional roller coaster has been fun but we are ready to be home together for the next roller coaster ride ! ! ! we feel so blessed that this has turned out so perfectly ! we are going to take the rest of this weekend off social media and bond together as a whole family ! ' indie , who was struggling to feed in the nicu less than a week ago , has now joined her identical twin sister , esme , and twins scarlett and evangeline , at the gardners ' home in pleasant grove
reunited : indie ( pictured , far left , in a previous facebook photo ) has now joined her identical twin sister , esme ( far right ) , and twins scarlett ( second right ) and evangeline , at the gardners ' home in pleasant grove , utah nicu doctor : on saturday , the couple also posted this photo of themselves with indie and dr stephen minton thankful : and they uploaded an image with nurse destiny avery , who helped look after their four daughters ashley and tyson gardner brought the first of their daughters - evangeline - home on february 16
' first of four : ashley and tyson gardner brought the first of their daughters - evangeline ( pictured ) - home on february 16
at one point during her first night away from hospital , the little girl slept for a full four hours straight big girl : evangeline was the first of her sisters strong enough to leave utah valley regional medical center parenthood is a breeze ! in a post in february , ashley wrote their daughter had a peaceful first night at home they added : ' the doctors are the first to admit that this has been a true miracle in everyone 's eye and they babies statistically should not have done this well ! ( sic ) ' indeed , the quadruplets birth was a one - in - 70 million chance
the couple hit the headlines last october after ashley 's priceless reaction to discovering she was pregnant with quadruplets was caught on video and posted online , where it quickly went viral
second and third : on february 20 , the couple were allowed to take home scarlett and esme ( pictured )
the following day , they revealed on facebook that their first night with three babies was ' tiring , but worth it ' hitting the headlines : the couple hit the headlines last october after ashley 's priceless reaction ( pictured ) to discovering she was pregnant with quadruplets was caught on video and posted online , where it went viral
the girl 's weights at birth were 1lb 13oz ( indie ) , 2lbs 9oz ( esme ) , 2lbs 6oz ( scarlett ) and 2 lbs 10oz ( evangeline )
a few days ago : on tuesday , ashley wrote on the social networking site that she wished she could take indie home soon
shortly after the birth , ashley took to facebook to express her delight at her four tiny bundles of joy , writing : ' they are simply perfect ! my heart is so full ! and to think , i almost gave up before doing ivf
getting into the festive spirit : the gardners posted this picture online before the birth of their girls , writing : ' santa let the elves take over for a bit today so he could come visit us in the hospital ! ! # happy29weeks ' proud new father : tyson gardner later posted this image : ' moms saying hello to esme ! incredible day ! god is real ' ' i felt so broken and did n't feel i could take any more ! i gathered the courage to try once again and look ! to you i say never give up on your dreams ! you never know when they will come true ! ' on tuesday , ashley wrote on the social networking site that she wished she could take indie home soon
she settled right down after snuggling in with mommy ! it breaks my heart that she is still here at the nicu ! i want to bring her home so badly ! ' thanks to the efforts of indie 's doctors and nurses , her wish has now come true .