durham and warwick are new entries in the world ’s top 100 universities , with oxbridge rivalling 1 harvard , it has been revealed
the uk now has 12 uk universities listed in the times higher education reputation rankings - up from 10 last year and nine in 2013 - the second highest of any individual country
only the u.s. has more entries in the top 100 , with 43
the results show that for the fifth year in a row there is an elite group of six u.s. and uk ‘ super brands ’ , the authors suggested , which are ‘ head and shoulders above the rest ’
1 harvard took first place again , followed by cambridge which has moved up from fourth , and oxford , which has risen from fifth to third
other uk universities in the top 100 include imperial college london , which falls one place to 14th , university college london , which is up eight places to 17th , and the london school of economics and political science which has moved from 24th to 22nd
top : 1 harvard was named number one , but cambridge and oxford came second and third respectively warwick and durham are two new entrants to the top 100 in the 81 - 90 band
phil baty , editor of times higher education rankings , said : ‘ this has been a good year for the uk , with the south east ‘ golden triangle ’ of oxbridge-london , oxford and cambridge cementing its position at the heart of higher education ’s global elite , drawing in talent and investment from across the world
’ 1 harvard , u.s. 2 cambridge , uk 3 oxford , uk 4 massachusetts institute of technology , u.s. 5 stanford , u.s. 6 university of california , berkeley , u.s. 7 princeton , u.s. 8 yale , u.s. 9 california institute of technology , u.s. 10 columbia , u.s. he added : ‘ it must be a concern for the many england regions that so many of our top institutions are concentrated in oxbridge-london and the south east
’ business secretary vince cable added : ‘ our reforms have helped to ensure uk universities are some of the best funded in the world and even more competitive for excellence – second only to the u.s.