conservative mp patel has accused her labour election rival of sending her misogynistic and racist tweets , one of which likened her to a ' sexy bond villain '
ms patel , who represents witham in essex , has called for clarke to be de-selected after he compared her to a ' village idiot ' on twitter
he has since apologised , but ms patel has urged labour leader ed miliband to take action against mr clarke , who she labelled a ' nasty piece of work '
conservative mp patel ( left ) has accused her labour election rival clarke ( right ) of sending her misogynistic and racist tweets , one of which likened her to a ' sexy bond villain ' the mother - of - one told mr ed miliband that mr clarke had been making ' derogatory , sleazy and demeaning comments , which had misogynistic and racist undertones to them '
in december , mr clarke responded to a tweet featuring ms patel 's comments on the autumn statement , writing : ' witham calling : the village is missing its idiot ! come home patel ... ' later that month he added : ' @ pritipatelmp was elected to represent the constituents of witham , not the indian community ( note i did n't say asian ... why ? ) ' in february he sent ms patel a link to another tweet asking : ' there 's a woman on the conservative party front bench who looks like she 'd be the sexy bond villain
who is she ! ? # pmqs ' he wrote : ' @ pritipatelmp if you 're the " sexy bond villain " does that make me bond , bond ? ( cue the music ! ) ' in december , mr clarke responded to a tweet featuring ms patel 's comments on the autumn statement , writing : ' witham calling : the village is missing its idiot ! come home patel ... ' in february mr clarke sent ms patel a tweet which likened her to a bond villain ms patel told labour leader ed miliband that mr clarke had been making ' derogatory , sleazy and demeaning comments , which had misogynistic and racist undertones to them ' last week the former teacher and university lecturer emailed ms patel to say : ' i would like to apologise to you for any offence caused and assure you that any inaccuracies will not be repeated ' the next week he wrote : ' @ pritipatelmp did the character deepa on the channel 4 programme ukip first 100 days remind u of anyone ? ' like ...
ms patel , who was elected in 2010 with a 15,000 majority , also accused mr clarke of ' lies ' after he claimed in a leaflet that she employed her husband alex sawyer on more than £ 50,000 a year
ms patel stood as a conservative candidate in the 2005 general election but lost the nottingham north poll in a landslide to long - standing labour mp graham allen
last week the former teacher and university lecturer emailed ms patel to say : ' i would like to apologise to you for any offence caused and assure you that any inaccuracies will not be repeated
' but ms patel retorted last night : ' until ed miliband turns around and says ' this is not acceptable , we are taking action against this individual ' , it is simply not enough
mr clarke is yet to comment on ms patel 's call for him to be de-selected
ms patel has written to ed miliband to ask him to take action against mr clarke , calling her rival for the witham seat a ' nasty piece of work '