seven members of congress including two u.s. senators have been caught following an x-rated account on twitter , but those whose spokespersons responded to requests for comment say their staff made innocent mistakes
the account , calling itself ' f * * * box radio , ' went dormant in 2013 but promised ' the best orgasm , porn and sex sounds ever ! we will post sex pics too ! ' the sex - themed account uses a sexually graphic photo as its header image
its official twitter handle , however , is the innocuous - sounding ' @ jukeboxradio2
' lawmakers whose official social media accounts followed ' f * * * box radio ' include minnesota democrats sen. amy klobuchar and south carolina republicans sen. republicans ; democrats reps
oops : seven members of congress followed a twitter account calling itself ' f * * * box radio , ' and two of them were still doing it – including california democrat sanchez – as of thursday at noon bipartisan : california issa rep. issa also followed the account , but his social media staff unfollowed after daily mail online asked about it rep. issa 's office unfollowed the account minutes after daily mail online asked for comment on thursday
' no comment : minnesota democrats sen. amy klobuchar 's office did n't respond to questions about why she had followed a pornographic twitter account macfarlane , a spokesman for rep. cicilline , explained that his boss was at one time in the habit of uncritically following twitter accounts that followed his
' morgan , chief of staff to rep. wagner , issued a denial to a question about how it was possible that her official twitter account had followed a porn - oriented user
' embarrassing : colorado democrats rep. degette is still following the ' twitter account other lawmakers ' offices did not respond to requests for comment at all
roll call reported wednesday that its initial purpose seemed to be harvesting followers for internet radio projects , and then complaining about government regulations that stood in the way of a 10 - year - old philadelphia girl , murnaghan , getting a lung transplant
at the time , then - hhs secretary kathleen sebelius refused to grant the terminally ill cystic fibrosis patient an exemption to a policy that gave priority to children over age 12