empire star taraji p. henson has issued a groveling apology to the lapd admitting her son was not racially profiled
the actress unleashed a scathing attack on officers earlier this week , accusing them of pulling over her 20 - year - old son marcel ' for no reason ' to ' illegally search his car ' in glendale , california , in october
but after the force released dash - cam footage showing the car streak through a red light , taraji p. henson has backtracked
the video , released on friday , shows taraji p. henson admit to having marijuana and ritalin on him , before an officer also finds hash oil , a grinder and a knife
' taraji p. henson made headlines earlier this week after telling uptown magazine : ' it was bogus because they did n't give him the ticket for what he was pulled over for
' under questioning , taraji p. henson told officers that he had a prescription for the marijuana but could not find it
he said he did not have a prescription for the ritalin and that a friend had given it to him
the dashcam footage was obtained by the los angeles times , which noted that race did not seem to be a factor when taraji p. henson was first pulled over
' i am not going to give you a citation for running that yellow because that would actually put a moving violation on your driving license , and you are going to have to go to traffic school and all that stuff , so i am helping you by not giving you a violation on it
traffic stop : footage has emerged of police pulling over marcel henson , son of actress taraji p. henson , in glendale , california , in october
taraji p. henson said this week her son was racially profiled during the stop new footage : despite taraji p. henson saying her son was pulled over for no reason , he actually ran a lighted crosswalk as a pedestrian crossed and admitted to having marijuana and ritalin on him sobriety test : marcel henson , 20 , told the officer he had smoked marijuana two hours before driving , and the officer asks him to get out of the car to see if he is under the influence , but determines he is n't the officer told taraji p. henson he could go to court with the citation and show proof he has a prescription for medical marijuana
the empire star said that not only was her son pulled over by police , but was stopped by cops at the university of southern california for ' having his hands in his pocket
taraji p. henson revealed she had planned to transfer marcel to university of southern california , but had now decided to send the 20 - year - old to the historically black howard university , her alma mater
empire star henson , 44 , says her son was stopped at the university of california ( file picture ) for no other reason than having his hands in his pockets a university of southern california chief vowed to carry out his own investigation into the alleged incident taraji p. henson spoke about in the magazine
after learning of the university of southern california allegation , thomas revealed that he too had experienced racial profiling as a teenager in a statement , he said : ' i was deeply disturbed to read news reports about a prospective student who felt profiled on or near campus because of his race
' taraji p. henson has revealed she has now decided to send her 20 - year - old son marcel to historically - black college new hit : taraji p. henson currently stars on empire as cookie lyon , the recently - released - from - prison ex-wife of a music mogul ( played by terrence howard ) he said he was not yet clear on which police departments were involved and that ' any allegation of bias or unequal treatment by university officers would trigger an investigation that i would supervise along with the university 's office of equity and diversity '
i 'm not paying $ 50k so i ca n't sleep at night wondering is this the night my son is getting racially profiled on campus
proud mother : taraji p. henson and her son pictured on january 20 , 2013 - attending a celebration for leading women in washington , dc also in the interview , taraji p. henson spoke about how happy she was to be one of now many black women leads on the small screen in shows like scandal and how to get away with murder