ella woodward , a u.k. health blogger who famously cured her rare but crippling nervous system disease by adopting a radical new diet two years ago , has made history in the u.k. as having the fastest selling debut cookbook since records began
now , the 23 - year - old former model has released her $ 16 food bible , ella , in the u.s. - with a list of banned foods so long it would make self - described lifestyle guru gwyneth paltrow 's eyes water - and already it has shot to number one on amazon 's cookbook list
' healthy eating does n’t have to be crazily complicated , it can actually be so fun , ' ella tells daily mail online of her approach , which consists of no meat , dairy , eggs , gluten , refined sugar , caffeine , or processed foods of any kind , and rarely any alcohol
green goddess : u.k. health blogger ella woodward , 23 , ( pictured ) has become the fastest debut cookbook seller in u.k. history , and the u.s. release of her book is proving wildly successful too ' my aim is to get people excited about eating more veggies , and seeing them as a delicious ingredients rather than a chore , ' the brunette beauty explains
ella 's ultra-clean diet may seem unfeasible to most , but her recipes have won her a staggering following ; more than 42 million hits to her blog , ella , a recipe app which shot to the top of the u.s. and u.k. charts last year , and now , a record - breaking cookbook
and while some might think that ella 's health - focused food strategy would fail to catch on in the u.s. - where more than two thirds of adults are classified as obese or overweight - ella feels that her strong u.s. following is down to that fact that health foods , and veganism , have become so incredibly popular , even more so here than in the u.k. ' i spent a lot of time in los angeles last year , and taking care of yourself is just so normal there , ' she remarks
' fan favorites include ella 's brownies , which are made from a base of sweet potatoes , and her coconut thai curry , a creamy medley of squash and chickpeas
success : ella has amassed more than 42 million views on her blog since 2012 , and her new cookbook ( pictured ) , released in the u.s. this month , has already shot to the top of amazon 's best - selling cookbook list watch and learn : the health guru , pictured on the today show last week teaching matt lauer a few tricks , says that vegan eating can be ' so much more than nut roasts ' in the u.k. , ella - the daughter of a supermarket heiress and a politician - has been hailed as ' the new lawson ' , but beyond their shared success , and their very pretty faces , ella admits that her food philosophy could n't be further from that of ms lawson 's
' health machine : a self - confessed former ' sugar monster ' , who used to gorge on candy and fast food , ella now eschews meat , dairy , eggs , gluten , refined sugar , processed food , caffeine , and rarely drinks alcohol healed : ella turned her unhealthy ways around 18 months ago , in a last - ditch attempt to cure herself of a sudden , chronic illness , postural tachycardia syndrome ( pots ) a self - confessed former ' sugar monster ' , who used to gorge on candy and fast food , ella turned her unhealthy ways around 18 months ago , in a last - ditch attempt to cure herself of a sudden , chronic illness : postural tachycardia syndrome ( pots )
the little - understood disease affects the nervous system , and , quite out - of - the - blue , left her in constant pain , sleeping for 16 hours a day , riddled with infections and so bloated she had to wear her father ’s clothes
' healthy spin : one of ella 's most famous recipes is for her brownies ( left ) , which are made from a base of sweet potatoes
pictured ( right ) , the cover of her newly - released cookbook asked whether any aspect of her choice to go vegan was related to ethics , or animal welfare , ella , who wears fur , said no. ' i always say that anyone should adapt my recipes to make it work for them , and if that means adding salmon or chicken , then i ’m very supportive of that , ' she explains , adding that she has ' learned a lot ' about the meat and dairy industry recently , and does see problems with it