robert olsen responded to a call at the heights of chamblee in atlanta on monday and gunned down anthony ' hill , 27 , who had been climbing over balconies and crawling along the floor
one witness said the cop told hill to go inside otherwise he was going to get arrested , but was shot when he started running toward olsen and ignored orders to stop
on wednesday , the former soldier 's girlfriend bridget anderson revealed he was being treated by a veterans ' association ( va ) doctor for bipolar disorder but stopped taking the medication a week or two ago because he did n't like the side effects , including stiffening in his jaw
she described how she was on the way to his house to cook and celebrate their three - year anniversary when she found out he was dead
veteran : police said it was reasonable to assume that hill , who was an air force veteran who had served in the middle east , was suffering from a mental illness at the time of the incident killed : hill , pictured with his girlfriend bridget , was shot after he ran at the officer , police have said
his girlfriend has revealed he was off medication he was taking for bipolar disorder at the time demading justice : more than 100 protesters gathered in the city of decatur on wednesday to protest his death emotional : justin grant , center , is comforted by jakalia brown ( left ) and community activist who gave her name as queen k ( right ) as he mourns the loss of his high school friend , anthony hill the relationship between law enforcement and civilians — particularly in poor , minority and high - crime neighborhoods — has become a contentious issue in many states across the u.s. following the high - profile deaths of unarmed men and teens by police officers , some of whom have been exonerated of wrongdoing after saying they perceived the males they shot as threats
authorities described how olsen approached him and hill turned towards him
the officer , who is white , is a seven - year veteran of the dekalb county police department
heartbroken : bridget took to twitter on monday to share her anguish over the death of her boyfriend shocked : bridget said the couple had been celebrating three years together on monday he added that he could ' reasonably assume ' that hill was possible suffering from mental illness at the time , given his behavior
in his final facebook post on monday morning , hill wrote : ' where i once saw death i only see life
his girlfriend , bridget anderson , wrote on twitter on monday : ' my boyfriend was shot and killed today by an officer
' i thought cops were suppose to protect and serve ? ? ? ? they took the love of my life away ! ! ! ! ! ' she added on twitter that monday had been their three - year anniversary
scene : hill was shot twice by a white officer at the heights of chamblee apartment complex in atlanta dekalb county police chief dr alexander , pictured last year , said the officer was also carrying a taser ' who will i share my secrets with now ? ' she wrote
on the same day , an officer in madison , wisconsin fatally shot a biracial 19 - year - old , prompting some 2,000 students to march in the state 's capital on monday