israel has been accused of spying on white house nuclear talks with iranian and then leaking details to republicans in congress in an effort to scupper the deal
however , israel 's security services have been accused of relaying information gleaned from the talks to republicans in congress
upon his return to tel aviv , mr netanyahu said : ' after my short visit to the u.s. , i return to israel knowing that many around the world heard what israel has to say about the impending deal with iranian
' mr nethanyahu wanted any proposed deal dependent upon iranian denouncing terrorism world wide and ceasing its ongoing sponsorship of jihadi organisations
the wall street journal reported that u.s. intelligence agencies discovered israel officials discussing information that could have only been gathered from inside the confidential talks
a senior u.s. official told the wall street journal : ' it is one thing for the u.s. and israel to spy on each other
it is another thing for israel to steal u.s. secrets and play them back to u.s. legislators to undermine u.s. diplomacy a white house source said : ' people feel personally sold out
the state of israel does not conduct espionage against the u.s. or israel ’s other allies
the false allegations are clearly intended to undermine the strong ties between the u.s. and israel and the security and intelligence relationship we share
the talks are expected to resume tomorrow the israel government has strongly denied spying on the talks which are being held in switzerland however , reaction in congress among republicans to possible deal with iranian has been hostile , with one senior senator warning that the white house faces ' a violent backlash ' if it bypasses washington and instead brings the deal to the u.n.
' republicans senator corker , the chairman of the senate foreign relations committee , introduced the bipartisan bill to give congress a vote on any agreement reached
israel wants any deal to include the dismantling of iranian 's nuclear weapon development programme senator corker , who introduced the measure with democratic senators bob menendez and tim kaine of virginia and graham , already wrote to mr obama warning him not to try to by - pass congress
in a letter , senator corker told president obama that letting the u.n. consider such an agreement - while at the same time threatening to veto legislation that would allow congress to vote on it - would be a ' direct affront ' to the u.s. people and would undermine the role of congress
' israel diplomats believe that the u.s. is willing to do a deal with iranian
former israel ambassador to germany shimon stein added : ' it 's only natural that given netanyahu 's concern of a deal with iranian that he would turn to france