an american idol reject whose lullaby made her a viral sensation has revealed online she almost aborted her baby - and in the process started a new viral moment of parents sharing photos of their children that almost never existed
kimberly henderson , 26 , from sunter , south carolina , filmed herself singing sam smith 's version of the whitney houston track how will i know to her one - year - old daughter , vaida , last december
the clip - which has since been viewed more than four million times - landed the full - time nurse an opportunity to record her own track and since then her phone has apparently been ringing off the hook
in a facebook post , henderson , who works as a full time nurse , explains that two years ago this week she had booked an appointment at an abortion clinic , but sat there for seven hours crying as she tried to make her decision
she then re-posted her post from that day , writing : ' i had my mind made up
my boyfriend was cheating on me
i have small kids , what will people think ? ? i kept telling myself i 'm all alone i need to do this
. i could hardly make out anyone or anything through the tears
' people were eating fast food around me , laughing , texting
i on the other hand was a wreck
but my heart was heavy
henderson and three of her children
in a facebook post , henderson , who works as a full time nurse , explained that two years ago this week she had booked an appointment at an abortion clinic , but sat there for seven hours crying as she tried to make her decision henderson with her youngest daughter vaida everly who she says she is ' in love with ' ' my once tiny 6lb baby is now 18lbs
loves to smile , ' she writes she says she had a difficult morning getting to the clinic as she had to find a babysitter because her daughter was ill , her car broke down on the drive and she arrived for her appointment late - and then she began to wonder if ' god was giving me signs to not do it
. " when you see your baby 's face for the first time you 're gon na be so glad you walked out of here today
" she says that when she left the clinic she felt an ' enormous amount of relief and strength
' henderson explained that the reason she is telling the story to her fans is that vaida is the baby she was singing to in her video which went viral
' singing to her in our kitchen for a memory keep sake is the reason our entire life is about to change
' her post has inspired hundreds of woman across the world to post photos of their children who they almost aborted
their reasons vary - one mother posted a photo of a smiling little girl and wrote alongside it : ' i almost had an abortion also because i got pregnant from a rape and was single with three small boys
he is now almost 17 and my very best friend ! ' a mother of six posted a photo of her and her children and wrote : ' i walked out of planned parenthood at 18
' we got married and had a handsome baby boy and a bunch more like him ! he will be 16 this year and we will be married 16 years ! he 's the young man standing next to me ! such a joy ! ! ! beautiful story ! ' another mother posted a photo of a girl in a wedding gown marrying a military officer and wrote : ' my beautiful choice on her wedding day
thank you for being brave enough to share your story ! ' she says she barely gets time to stop but recently she took time out to go and record her own high - gloss music track in los angeles called hearts henderson 's song hearts is currently at number five in the itunes chart henderson 's song hearts is currently at number five in the itunes chart
she says she has been singing since the age of two and doing it full - time would be a dream come true
she says she barely gets time to stop but recently she took time out to go and record her own high - gloss music track in los angeles
tiny hearts was released in january and it is jumping up the charts an accompanying music video captured henderson in action with her children and singing at a recording studio apparently the firm found out henderson was in a bad car crash and a cosco car seat saved her child ’s life
an accompanying music video captured henderson in action with her children and singing at a recording studio
' i do n't know where she is , ' the singer told the huffington post , adding , ' but i keep thinking that maybe if she somehow sees my video or my new song , she 'll come forward and try to reach out
along with whitney houston and sam smith , christina aguilera is another of the blonde 's musical idols .