the devastated family of a 29 - year - old australia woman who died after undergoing ‘ simple ’ cosmetic surgery in mexico are desperately trying to find what happened to their ‘ beautiful and gracious ’ loved one
evita nicole sarmonikas was admitted to a hospital in mexicali , the capital city of the mexico state of baja california , on march 20 while on holiday with her boyfriend
she died on the same day , after reportedly suffering a heart attack
her distraught family are at a loss to understand why she could not be saved
they highlight how australia medical advice shows that ‘ even in the case of cardiac arrest a healthy young body can often be brought back to life when surrounded by a fully equipped hospital and a competent medical team ’
ms sarmonikas ’s family has set up a facebook page in tribute to the ‘ perfect and whole soul ’ and to also help fundraise up to $ 20,000 , which is needed to bring her body back home to australia
they have also urged other woman not to ' risk death to improve on perfection '
gold coast woman evita nicole sarmonikas has died in a mexico hospital after undergoing surgery ‘ the autopsy showed eva went into cardiac arrest following surgery
’ ms sarmonikas ’s family have been advised to travel to mexico as soon as possible to request an independent autopsy – not carried out by the hospital where she died – and to bring her home
’ a facebook tribute page has been set up for evita to share advice and support and to help fundraise to bring her body home to australia one friend on facebook described eva as a ' shining light in the dark and unforgiving world ' her family are also asking for help in gaining legal and medical representation as advised by the australian embassy
ms sarmonikas ’s family have not said what procedure evita was undergoing before she died but they explained : ‘ as beautiful as evita was inside and out
ms sarmonikas ’s family have been advised to travel to mexico as soon as possible to request an independent autopsy ‘ these doctors promised her more perfection to fill an emptiness that began developing early in our childhood
her sister andrea has urged others not too risk their lives in the pursuit of what they perceive as beauty
‘ this was not the way to go home , no woman should risk death to improve on perfection , ’ they said
one friend wrote ' she was such a gorgeous girl physically and emotionally ' friends have promised to help bring evita , ' a truly beautiful soul ' , home anyway they can there has been an outpouring of love and messages of condolences on the page set up to remember ms evita nicole sarmonikas
' sugah kimba wrote : ' she is a beautiful soul ! ! ! eva is the type of person to make the world a little more beautiful ! ! ! ! that 's just who she was ! ! ! ' sasha rpaki said : ' how do you improve on perfection ? eva was perfect , just as god made her and no man should ever have adulterated his masterpiece