' it is warne ... he represents the majority of australian , i would have thought '
the today show host karl stefanovic jumped to the defence of cricket legend warne on monday morning following a backlash over warne 's controversial booze remarks last night
warne was pilloried on social media for repeatedly asking cricket stars how ' thirsty ' they were for a drink in interviews following australia 's demolition of new zealand at the cricket world cup final
' what 's wrong with having a drink to celebrate anything ? what 's wrong with that ? ' karl stefanovic questioned during a lively panel discussion
' karl stefanovic argued that a celebratory drink was part of the country 's ' culture ' and ' history '
warne fired back at his critics in a late - night tweet : ' australian ( australia ) is the best place in the world , not politically correct '
the furore began started warne asked wicket - keeper first asked brad haddin : ' are you feeling thirsty ? ' he then quizzed batsman steve smith : ' are you going to have a bit of a drink tonight too smitty ? are you going to get thirsty as well ? ' finally , warne asked fast bowler josh hazlewood : ' so what 's the plan - besides lots of drink and that ? ' how long is that going to last ? just one night , two nights ? ' go and enjoy yourselves guys
hopefully we 'll join you for a few
' all melanie homer was ' blah blah blah drink ' brodie kane joked about warne 's love of the mobile dating app tinder celebrations got underway immediately after australia smashed its way to a seven - wicket victory against new zealand in the icc world cup final in melbourne
australian stars such as steve smith – who scored the winning run with 17 overs to spare - and david warner soaked up the atmosphere after their success and celebrated with the record crowd
adam peacock compared warne to a simpsons character australia 's warne celebrates with champagne after australia beat england in the fourth cricket test at headlingley , leeds , england , july 28 , 1997 lucy carter thought it sounded like warne was trying to get himself an invite a cricket fan admired the way warne asked the tough questions after the match australian head coach darren lehmann poses with the trophy and a beer as he celebrates brad haddin of australia pours a vb beer over the trophy after winning the celebrations moved into the mcg change rooms , where players posed with family members and loved ones
' at 3am warne posted a photo of himself and clarke holding the gold cup with the caption : ' congrats buddy , so happy for you ! ! ! ! # thirsty hahahah ...
' the australian captain allan border ( left ) and warne celebrate in the dressing room after the 1st test match between england and australia at old trafford in manchester , june 7 1993
australia won by 179 runs in a former victory , warne ( left ) of australia sprays the team with beer as they celebrate winning the test by 10 wickets , during day three of the first test between india and australia in mumbai