i watched in awe on thursday as cardiothoracic surgeon and celebrity talk show host oz surfed a gargantuan wave of criticism to shore
i should have expected that dr. oz would keep standing in the face of charges from a group of colleagues that he pushed " quack treatments ... for personal financial gain
if dr. oz was ever going to go down , surely his ship would 've sunk last summer in the wake of his disastrous testimony before a senate subcommittee
he was ostensibly invited to speak as an expert witness about bogus weight loss products , but sen. claire mccaskill , chairwoman of the senate 's consumer protection panel , instead made him her chief example of the kind of snake oil salesmen that keep hoodwinking consumers into thinking there 's a quick fix for their expanding waistlines
oliver subsequently eviscerated oz on his hit hbo show " last week tonight
" in a segment that 's now garnered over 6 million youtube views , oliver makes quick work of oz 's claims about " magic " green coffee beans , a product that 's now earned a $ 9 million ftc fine for its false marketing claims
despite his utter humiliation , dr. oz soldiered on , with his university and hospital continuing to stand by him , and with harpo productions and sony , who co-produce " the dr. oz show , " fully behind his program
if the senate could n't bring him down , what made this particular collection of 10 doctors think they could do it with their recent letter to columbia , where dr. oz holds a tenured professorship and administrative position in the department of surgery and performs his duties at columbia - affiliated new york presbyterian hospital ? the doctors insisted that the university must disassociate itself from dr. oz for his now well - established tendency to promote cure - alls more befitting 1915 than 2015
and oz and his producers responded with alacrity , slicing and dicing his ill - prepared challengers with an investigative segment that would 've made " dateline " proud
it 's a simple matter to question ulterior motives when the letter itself takes pains to highlight oz 's critical attitude toward gmo foods , not one of his greatest indiscretions by a long shot
dr. oz after all has conducted experiments on his tv audience , apparently in violation of the rules of his own academic medical center
instead of mounting a defense of the indefensible claims he delivers so easily and often , dr. oz routed his critics by quickly pivoting to the undercurrents of their letter
these characters never stood a chance in tipping the scales against dr. oz , but they got their headlines nonetheless
one doc asked dr. oz how he could keep up with the fast - changing world of cardiothoracic surgery and carry on with his show every weekday