havana , cuba all eyes are going to be on the new kid finally allowed to play and the big kid who for so long wanted nothing to do with him -- cuba and the u.s. in the same diplomatic playground
cuba pulled off a diplomatic coup by marshaling the support of other regional countries to insist on their attendance at the summit of the americas
and for the first time since 1962 , the u.s. has not blocked cuba 's attempt to join
cuba is trying to re-establish itself at the two - day summit in panama , arriving with more than 100 government officials , diplomats , small business people and artists
but cuba 's attempts to rebrand itself as an open , diverse society stumbled wednesday when government supporters and anti-castro supporters brawled in the streets of panama
video of the incident showed cuba government officials exchanging punches and insults with dissidents until panama police in riot gear broke up the melee
with the historic thawing in relations between the u.s. and cuba , washington now has urgent business to discuss with havana
while president obama is not scheduled to meet cuba leader raul castro , u.s. officials said there will be opportunities for " interaction " between the two leaders
obama had said he had hoped a u.s. embassy would reopen in havana before the summit , but cuba officials have said they can not imagine a full restoration of diplomatic ties until cuba is removed from the state department list of countries that support terrorism
" it would be difficult to explain that diplomatic relations have been resumed while cuba has been unjustly listed as a state sponsor of international terrorism , " said josefina vidal , the general director of u.s. affairs at the cuba foreign ministry and lead negotiator in the talks
chavez 's successor nicolas maduro continues to send cuba tens of thousands of barrels of oil each day , despite his country 's own economic turmoil
in cuba 's state - run media , criticism of u.s. policy towards venezuela has overshadowed the improvement in u.s. - cuba relations
a poll of 1,200 cuba released on wednesday found that 97 % of the people surveyed by miami - based polling firm bendixen & amandi on behalf of the washington post and univision noticias / fusion supported improved u.s. - cuba relations .