robert downey jr. is making headlines for walking out of an interview with a british journalist who dared to veer away from the superhero movie robert downey jr. was there to promote
the journalist instead started asking personal questions about the actor 's political beliefs and " dark periods " of addiction and jail time
twitter , of course , is abuzz : did journalist guru-murthy go too far ? must every interview be a license for a journalist to ask anything he 'd like ? from the start of the 7 - minute television interview , it seems evident that robert downey jr. is not particularly interested in being there , even if being there was , ultimately , a benefit to him -- after all , he 's promoting his latest film , " avengers : age of ultron
" but it 's after guru-murthy asks robert downey jr. whether he thinks he is " free from all of that , " referring to robert downey jr. 's history of " taking drugs , drinking " that the building tension comes to a head
" i 'm sorry , " says robert downey jr. , " what are we doing ? " to which guru-murthy replies , " i 'm just asking questions , " which indeed was so
robert downey jr. has the right to refuse to answer the question , of course , but that 's not what he does next
but while robert downey jr. may be understandably tired of answering questions about his past , questions that have been asked before , his business is our business
this is why most celebrities , especially those with a big budget movie to promote , agree to interviews and seek out recognition in general
but when the recognition no longer serves them ? then they want to bemoan it ? what robert downey jr. seemed to misunderstand is that the interview format gives journalists the right to ask questions
but he does not have the right to be absolved for behavior that is rude , demeaning , and disrespectful -- even if he 's a celebrity , and even if he felt uncomfortable or put - off
" robert downey jr. might not have been " in the mood " to be questioned ... and those days , those moods , are understandable
the actor has agreed to an interview as part of his job