the death of freddie gray , which was the flashpoint for the protests and now the riots in baltimore , has raised again the questions surrounding police use of force , especially after the now - familiar video of officers arresting mr. freddie gray and loading him into a police van
freddie gray was arrested by police on april 12
freddie gray 's family said his voice box had been crushed and his neck snapped , and after a week of hospitalization , he died
police commissioner anthony batts has said , " we know our police employees failed to get him medical attention in a timely manner multiple times
" the police and the u.s. justice department are investigating
the case raises at least three legal issues : believe it or not , the charging document in this case gives us more information than the now - viral video of the arrest.in that narrative , police state " defendant fled unprovoked upon noticing police presence
" the police are locked in : it appears that by their own narrative that the unprovoked flight was the only reason for the stop , because the very next thing that happens ... is the stop
can the police stop you if all you do is run from them when you see them ? for the most part , yes
in this case , mr. freddie gray took off running
the supreme court and maryland courts have made clear that unprovoked flight -- running away from the police for no reason -- is enough to support reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed
when you add to the suspect 's flight the supreme court 's recognition that the character of the neighborhood is also a factor in assessing reasonable suspicion , it appears that the police in this case had at least enough to justify the stop , constitutionally
" but police are supposed to articulate the additional safety concern to get to the frisk
police must also have reasonable suspicion that the suspect may be " armed and presently dangerous " to additionally conduct a carefully limited search of the outer clothing for the sole purpose of discovering weapons
" should n't that really say : " i saw a clip but whatever it was clipped to was inside a pocket ... where i could n't see it " ? that 's a close call : police were lawfully at the stop stage , but the knife -- even though it was inside his pants pocket -- was visible from the outside ... because of an identifying knife clip ? see how artfully that was done ? observation of a knife is definitely a safety concern
observation of a clip ? i suppose that will get the officer to the frisk of the pocket ... assuming he is a connoisseur of knife clips and can differentiate them from hair clips , chip clips , etc. according to william murphy , an attorney for freddie gray 's family , he was carrying a " pocket knife of legal size , " and the lawyer contended that police did n't see the knife before the altercation
remember also that based on the police narrative in the report , they did not see the knife until after they seized mr. freddie gray
so the question arises : what would they have done with freddie gray if he had no knife or other contraband on him ? they could , but most likely not unless there was some intentional act that resulted in freddie gray 's death
baltimore police are suggesting mr. freddie gray 's injuries occurred after his arrest , while he was being transported back for processing , and that he may not have received proper medical attention
it will be harder to hold them liable if freddie gray 's injuries happened after -- not before -- his arrest
pre-arrest , freddie gray 's " seizure " would be judged by a " reasonableness " standard , under the fourth amendment
fortunately , courts have held that pretrial detainees like freddie gray are entitled to at least the same protection under the 14th amendment as are convicted prisoners under the eighth amendment , and its prohibition against " cruel and unusual punishments , " in this case the deliberate indifference to medical needs of prisoners
that 's a higher standard for liability than if freddie gray was hurt pre-arrest , so , if it 's the truth , it just happens to also be a constitutionally convenient one .