surkhet , nepal ten years ago , with her high school diploma and a backpack , doyne left her new jersey hometown to travel the world before college
she lived in a buddhist monastery , helped rebuild a sea wall in fiji , then went to india and worked with nepal refugees
there , she met a young girl who wanted to find her family in nepal
that 's when doyne 's life took an unexpected turn
do you know a hero ? nominations are open for cnn heroes 2015 a decade - long civil war had just ended in the country , and doyne witnessed its effects firsthand
" it changed me , " said doyne , now 28
" doyne called her parents and asked them to wire her the $ 5,000 she had earned babysitting
in 2006 , she purchased land in surkhet , a district in western nepal
today , kopila -- which means " flower bud " in nepal -- is home to about 50 children , from infants to teenagers
doyne started the blinknow foundation to support and grow her efforts
doyne lives in nepal year - round , traveling to the u.s. a few times a year
see more cnn heroes the cnn heroes team traveled to surkhet and talked to doyne about her work and the community she supports
cnn : how does it work , raising nearly 50 kids ? doyne : it 's communal living , for sure ! we 're a family of almost 50 kids ages 8 months to 16 years
cnn : how does a child come to live in your home ? doyne : our first priority as an organization is to keep a child with their family if at all possible
in order to come into the home , you need to have lost both parents , or in some rare cases have suffered extreme neglect , abuse or have a parent who 's incarcerated
cnn : meanwhile , you have 350 children attending your school
what is their background ? doyne : every single year we 'll get from 1,000 to 1,500 applicants
cnn : what have you learned working with the local community in nepal ? doyne : i learned very early on , from the beginning , that i could n't come in and just be like , " here , i have a vision
it 's really important to me that this is a nepal project , working for nepal , for the community
so the faces that you see are strong nepal women and amazing nepal role - model men
cnn : how does the project continue to grow ? doyne : we started with the home and then school
want to get involved ? check out the blinknow foundation website at www.blinknow.org and see how to help .