a u.s. citizen with alleged ties to al qaeda did not enter a plea during his initial court appearance thursday on charges of conspiring to provide material support to terrorists
farekh , 29 , was deported from pakistan to the u.s.
he 's accused of plotting to fight against u.s. forces abroad , according to a complaint unsealed in u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york in brooklyn
" pretty simple reason why : if you look at a case like this , i think most u.s. would say the significance of this case is that this guy , an u.s. , is going to come back home and conduct an attack
he 's going to serve as the conduit or known in pakistan who understands the west , how you travel , how you stay out of the clutches of law enforcement and he also understands al qaeda in pakistan
" farekh 's court appearance comes on the same day that federal prosecutors announced the arrests of two new york women accused of planning to build an explosive device for an attack on u.s. soil
they are both u.s. citizens and were roommates in the borough of queens
farekh allegedly departed from canada and headed to pakistan with two other men in 2007 with the intention of fighting u.s. forces abroad , prosecutors said
in the past 18 months , the justice department 's national security division has prosecuted or is prosecuting more than 30 cases of people attempting to travel abroad to join or provide support to terrorist groups
" a texas native , farekh and his co-conspirators allegedly conspired to provide material support and resources to al qaeda from 2006 to 2009 , according to the complaint
their intention , according to court documents : to kill and attempt to kill u.s. government employees and military personnel abroad
" farekh allegedly provided material support to terrorists with every intention of becoming a martyr , " fbi assistant director in charge diego rodriguez said in a statement
" when farekh , another man named imam and a third co-conspirator left canada for pakistan in 2007 , they did not inform their families of their plans , court documents said