lausanne , switzerland the bad news ? the deadline to agree on what will be the parameters for an endgame pact on iran 's nuclear program has come and gone with no deal
for those hoping that will eventually happen , it 's good that iran foreign minister zarif , u.s. secretary of state kerry and senior european union diplomat helga schmid held talks early thursday morning in lausanne
" i 'm optimistic that we will make further progress ... but it does mean the iran being willing to meet us where there are still issues to deal with
" but by thursday morning , there was still no deal
zarif told reporters that iran has shown " its readiness to engage with dignity , and it 's time for our negotiating partners to seize the moment and use this opportunity , which may not be repeated
they are mutually exclusive , " the iran minister said
" so our friends need to decide whether they want to be with iran based on respect or whether they want to continue based on pressure
" u.s. state department official marie harf said on twitter that talks between kerry and zarif ran deep into the early hours of thursday morning
" that was truly an all - nighter , " she tweeted around 6 a.m. local time ( 12 a.m. et ) , saying the negotiations had broken up and would resume again in a few hours
‎ another u.s. official had said earlier that " some serious issues remain unresolved
" " it is still totally unclear when this might happen , if it happens at all
as long as " the conversations continue to be productive , " white house press secretary josh earnest said , u.s. officials will keep on talking
russia foreign minister lavrov -- whose country has been taking part in the talks , along with germany , france , britain and the european union -- went so far as to say " with a large degree of confidence " that " framework agreements have been reached on all the key aspects of this issue at the ministerial level
" " we hope that these agreements will be put on paper in the next few hours or a day at the most , " lavrov said before leaving the talks along with his counterparts from china and france
" the agreement stipulates a comprehensive approach to settling this issue , including iaea verification of the exclusively peaceful nature of iran 's nuclear program and detailed provisions on lifting the sanctions
" but it does n't matter if russia or germany is comfortable with the details ; the key is getting the u.s. and iran on the same page , something that 's hard given the decades of contempt and distrust
" you 're talking here about an institutionalized relationship of hostility between the u.s. and iran
his reasoning : " i think there is a convergence of interests between obama 's administration and the iran leadership , and that 's why both camps have a vested interest in signing an agreement , as opposed to walking away
that 's why iran is facing crippling sanctions in the first place : because many world powers felt they could not trust tehran , given its dealings with nuclear inspectors and in talks
mohammad marandi , a professor of north american studies at tehran university , told cnn that iran officials feel they 've already compromised a lot in the talks
21 questions on iran nuclear talks the main sticking points at the moment are believed to be the pace at which u.n. sanctions on iran will be lifted , how much nuclear research and development iran will be able to maintain and whether iran will ship its stockpile of enriched uranium out of the country for reprocessing into a safer form
the leader of israel , a key u.s. ally that considers iran to be an existential threat , on tuesday said " the agreement that is being formed in lausanne is paving the road to that result
" and on wednesday , israel prime minister netanyahu obliquely suggested that the u.s. could be threatened as well
iran progress toward a nuclear weapon could spark an arms race in the middle east and talk of military strikes from the u.s. or israel