i was a copygirl in my fourth month at the chicago daily news , my second assigned to the city desk
it had become my custom at 4 o'clock , when the city desk secretary left for the day , to move over to her spot to help answer the phones as the beat reporters called in to check out for the day
it was so quiet that afternoon -- 70 years ago , on thursday , april 12 , 1945 -- the city editor and assistant city editor had felt comfortable leaving their desks
the second city editor , housley , was to my left
to my right , perhaps 6 feet away , the telegraph editor , george dodge
at 4:50 , the old - fashioned upright " candlestick " telephone on his desk rang -- the direct line associated press used to alert editors to major news events
he answered , replaced the bell - like receiver on its hook and said to everyone in general and no one in particular , " roosevelt is dead
" the silence of shock
until dodge jumped up so quickly , his swivel chair crashed into the glass - fronted bookcase behind him -- a symphonic orchestra cymbals sound -- and ran to what was called the tube room , with its row of associated press teletype machines
housley said , " clear the decks for action
" the words had barely cleared his lips when city editor lane half - ran back into the city room
o'flaherty , director of the daily news foreign service , was only a step or two behind
" they 'd heard and had a splay of white envelopes on president franklin d. roosevelt -- big and bulging -- spread out
lewin , who usually handled labor stories , had been told " to do something on the new president
he wrote : " the new president -- the 33d in the history of the u.s. -- is truman
" he was automatically elevated to the presidency on the death of president franklin d. roosevelt
the cricket - like click click click of typewriter keys at the rewrite desk drew me , and i stood by to take his story to lane : " word of president franklin d. roosevelt 's death struck chicago late this afternoon with numbing suddenness
word passed from one to another : " ' did you hear that ? franklin d. roosevelt is dead ? is it true ' ? " cleveland 's story delivered , i returned to the city desk to help with the calls
a copyboy rushed around the room , dropping off copies of the first extra -- the simple news in a 76 - point - type headline : roosevelt dead statements began coming in from local officials and civic leaders , a few phoned in but most from the city news bureau , which served the chicago newspapers with local news as the wire services did with national news
i sorted through the multiple copies , separating them into ever - growing stacks
roosevelt dead with the subhead : dies at 63 of hemorrhage in georgia the last extra had a three - column photo of franklin d. roosevelt , edged in black , a two - column of truman and a story on the president 's death and funeral plans
as the editors talked , i heard one ask , " what kind of president do you think he 'll make ? " and o'flaherty , director of the daily news foreign service , said , " if there 's anything to the u.s. system , the man will rise to the office
" i 've thought of that through the years as truman has risen in the opinion of presidential historians
" in the dusk , the quiet , i suspect he did n't expect an answer , but i thought about franklin d. roosevelt , who served in the white house for an unprecedented 12 years
" he 's the only president i can remember
" the funeral train will bring his body up from georgia ... to washington , i mean
lewis took his cue from franklin d. roosevelt 's address to a joint session of the congress following his trip to yalta
" note : an earlier version of this article incorrectly quoted franklin d. roosevelt 's age in the chicago daily news subhead