iran will sign a final nuclear agreement only if economic sanctions against the nation are removed on the first day of the deal 's implementation , president hassan rouhani said thursday
ayatollah khamenei , the islamic republic 's supreme leader , meanwhile , told state - run media outlets he is neither in favor nor against the proposed deal because it is n't final , and he 's not certain it will become binding because he has " never been optimistic about negotiations with the u.s. " six world powers and iran reached a preliminary deal last week that aims to limit tehran 's nuclear program in exchange for lifting economic sanctions
the u.s. , however , has stressed that if a final deal is reached with iran , the removal of any sanctions will come in phases
negotiators from iran and the u.s. , china , germany , france , britain and russia have until june 30 to come up with a final deal
khamenei said he supports the negotiators , but in several not - so - subtle shots at the u.s. , noted it is too soon to celebrate the proposed deal
" any final deal must " ensure the interests and dignity of the ( iran ) nation , " he said , adding he will support an agreement that " will safeguard national interests and dignity
" he said he 'd rather see the agreement fail than make a deal that jeopardizes iran 's interests
hassan rouhani said his government would not surrender to bullying , sanctions and threats , according to press tv
" we will not sign any deal unless on the very first day of its implementation all economic sanctions against iran are lifted all at once , " hassan rouhani said at a ceremony to mark national nuclear technology day in tehran
president obama faces an uphill battle selling the deal to a skeptical congress , which has threatened to impose new sanctions on iran
u.s. energy secretary moniz , a nuclear physicist and negotiator with iran , estimated it would take six months after a final deal is signed for the sanctions to be lifted
asked if the iran were aware of that time frame during the negotiations -- before hassan rouhani called for the immediate lifting of sanctions -- moniz said , " oh , yes , for sure
" the no. 3 house republican leader said a bill to ease any sanctions does not stand much of a chance in the u.s. house or senate
the framework includes the easing of u.s. and u.n. sanctions on iran if it takes certain steps to curb its nuclear program
in exchange , the u.s. and the european union would lift sanctions that have crippled the country 's economy
the u.s. and iran have a long history of strained relations , which made the negotiations more significant