talk show host dr. dr. oz is defending himself against a group of doctors who accuse him of " manifesting an egregious lack of integrity " in his tv and promotional work and who call his faculty position at columbia university unacceptable
in a written statement issued last week , dr. oz said , " i bring the public information that will help them on their path to be their best selves
it all started when a group of 10 physicians from across the country emailed a letter to columbia university expressing disapproval that oz is on the faculty
the email sent to columbia university 's faculty dean for health sciences and medicine , dr. goldman , said the group is " surprised and dismayed " that oz is on faculty and that he holds a senior administrative position
oz is vice chair of the department of surgery , at college of physicians and surgeons
it was signed by nine other physicians from across the country , none of whom is affiliated with columbia university
" the doctors argue in their emailed letter that oz shows " disdain for science and for evidence - based medicine , as well as baseless and relentless opposition to the genetic engineering of food crops
miller and the other doctors who signed the email echo that sentiment , saying oz is misleading the public and they tell columbia university 's goldman that having him on the faculty is unacceptable
" he 's a charlatan , and columbia university elevating him to a position of authority is a credence and platform for misleading more people , " she said in a phone interview
dr. joel tepper , a radiology professor at the university of north carolina school of medicine , is also a former classmate of miller 's
he told cnn he does not have a vendetta against oz. he said he just wants him to " follow the basic rules of science and state what he knows as fact as fact and state what he does n't know as fact as not fact
" he and fleet share mccaskill 's example of oz 's promotion of " miracle weight loss drugs " on the show as failure on oz 's part to follow the oath taken by doctors to do no harm
dr. gordon gill , professor emeritus of medicine and of cellular and molecular medicine at the university of san diego school of medicine , wrote in a letter to cnn : " in discussions with miller , i agreed that the imprimatur of college of physicians and surgeons behind dr. dr. oz gave an inaccurate message to tv viewers and as dr. goldman and i are long time colleagues i was comfortable pointing out these problems to him
while the email does not call for any specific action to be taken by the university , miller told cnn in an email that the group 's goal is " for dr. dr. oz to resign from the columbia university faculty and decide that he 'd prefer a career as a tv celebrity doctor
" oz spokesman tim sullivan sent an email to cnn last week listing the names of five of the 10 people who complained about oz the email questions the integrity and even the qualifications of those who are pointing fingers at oz for its part , columbia university is standing by oz spokesman levy said in a statement , " columbia university is committed to the principle of academic freedom and to upholding faculty members ' freedom of expression for statements they make in public discussion
the university has no position on what faculty members say in public discussion -- that is their individual academic freedom and is provided to them in the university 's governing documents , he said
a cardiac surgeon , oz came to columbia university for his residency after medical school in 1986 and rose through the ranks