washington until recently , if you sat in church on sunday mornings , pollsters could predict where you stood on same - sex marriage
in 2003 , when the supreme court became the country 's first to legalize same - sex marriage , less than 30 % of religiously affiliated u.s. supported gays ' and lesbians ' right to wed. by 2014 , that number had climbed to 47 % , according to a survey conducted by the prri
the margin is small but statistically significant , said jones , ceo of prri , because of the exceptionally large pool of respondents : 40,000 adult u.s.
) according to prri 's poll , there are now more people of faith who favor marriage equality than stand against it , a dramatic turn in one of this country 's most divisive debates and a generational shift with the potential to sweep through everything from the wedding industry to the 2016 presidential race
" if the u.s. supreme court has been paying attention , it likely saw this trend coming
on tuesday , for example , as the supreme court hears oral arguments in obergefell v. hodges , a case widely expected to produce a landmark ruling on same - sex marriage , an interfaith coalition of clergy led by the dean of washington 's national cathedral is planning to march in support of lgbt rights
" i join with many across the spectrum of u.s. faith communities in my hope that the supreme court 's ruling will permit same - sex marriage in all 50 states , " the very rev. hall , the cathedral 's dean , said in a statement
together , leaders of these faiths represent more than 120 million u.s.
despite vocal opposition from the u.s. catholic bishops , for example , 60 % of catholics now favor same - sex marriage
protestants -- so - called for their prominence in 20th century u.s. life -- also saw a huge shift in the last decade
same - sex marriage rights worldwide legalized nationwide : argentina , belgium , canada , denmark , iceland , netherlands , norway , portugal , spain , south africa , sweden legalized in certain regions : brazil , mexico , u.s. civil unions or domestic partnerships : andorra , austria , brazil , colombia , czech republic , ecuador , finland , france , germany , greenland , hungary , ireland , liechtenstein , luxembourg , new zealand , slovenia , switzerland , united kingdom , uruguay and parts of australia , mexico , u.s. and venezuela the survey data comes from prri 's american values atlas , conducted between april and december of last year
prri is a nonpartisan , nonprofit research group that focuses on faith and u.s. culture
separate surveys conducted by prri and other groups show much of the newfound religious support for same - sex marriage is coming from younger u.s.
seven in 10 millennials , for example , support same - sex marriage and say that faith groups alienate young adults by being judgemental on sexual ethics
those numbers could put gop presidential candidates in a tight spot , said jones , as they try to expand their base and appeal to younger u.s.
" still , burk said he does n't doubt that more millennials accept same - sex marriage , and he fully expects the supreme court to legalize gay weddings countrywide this june when the justices render a decision in obergefell v. hodges