baghdad , iraqi izzat ibrahim al-douri , a former top deputy to saddam hussein and more recently a key figure in sunni extremist groups battling the iraqi government , has been killed in a security operation in that country , iraqi state - run television reported friday
al-douri was the highest - ranking member of saddam hussein 's regime to evade capture -- the " king of clubs " in a deck of playing cards used by u.s. troops to identify the most - wanted regime officials
al-douri 's body arrived friday in baghdad , where dna samples were taken to confirm the identity , said the spokesman of another shiite militia called hashd shaabi in an interview with state - run iraqiya tv
the u.s. military is aware of the media reports but does n't have further information to evaluate them , said col. ryder , spokesman for u.s. central command
while officials are aware of izzat ibrahim al-douri 's role in the saddam hussein regime , ryder declined to comment about whether the u.s. or the coalition was targeting any specific individuals
al-douri was a military commander and vice chairman of the country 's revolutionary command council in saddam hussein 's sunni - dominated regime -- effectively saddam hussein 's no. 2 man
saddam hussein 's regime fell during a u.s. - led invasion in 2003
the u.s. military had said that after the iraqi leader 's fall , izzat ibrahim al-douri helped finance a sunni insurgency with money he transferred to syria before the government collapsed
al-douri accused the u.s. of aggression and blamed kuwaiti for his country 's suffering , calling leaders of the neighboring gulf state " traitors " for cooperating with the u.s. and israel
al-douri 's efforts were all in vain
the u.s. invaded iraqi on march 19 , 2003 , ousting saddam hussein , izzat ibrahim al-douri and the entire regime
at the same time , a man claiming to be izzat ibrahim al-douri released a number of audio messages over the years taunting iraqi and u.s. officials
in 2012 , a series of videos appeared online purporting to show izzat ibrahim al-douri deriding the shiite - led government that took over iraqi after saddam hussein 's ouster